[ ![PostgreSQL Elephant Logo](/media/img/about/press/elephant.png) ](/)

  * [Home](/ "Home")
  * [About](/about/ "About")
  * [Download](/download/ "Download")
  * [Documentation](/docs/ "Documentation")
  * [Community](/community/ "Community")
  * [Developers](/developer/ "Developers")
  * [Support](/support/ "Support")
  * [Donate](/about/donate/ "Donate")
  * [Your account](/account/ "Your account")

__

May 8, 2025: [ PostgreSQL 17.5, 16.9, 15.13, 14.18, and 13.21 Released! ](/about/news/postgresql-175-169-1513-1418-and-1321-released-3072/) | [ PostgreSQL 18 Beta 1 Released! ](/about/news/postgresql-18-beta-1-released-3070/)

[Documentation](/docs/ "Documentation") -> [PostgreSQL
16](/docs/16/index.html)

Supported Versions: [Current](/docs/current/app-pgverifybackup.html
"PostgreSQL 17 - pg_verifybackup") ([17](/docs/17/app-pgverifybackup.html
"PostgreSQL 17 - pg_verifybackup")) / [16](/docs/16/app-pgverifybackup.html
"PostgreSQL 16 - pg_verifybackup") / [15](/docs/15/app-pgverifybackup.html
"PostgreSQL 15 - pg_verifybackup") / [14](/docs/14/app-pgverifybackup.html
"PostgreSQL 14 - pg_verifybackup") / [13](/docs/13/app-pgverifybackup.html
"PostgreSQL 13 - pg_verifybackup")

Development Versions: [18](/docs/18/app-pgverifybackup.html "PostgreSQL 18 -
pg_verifybackup") / [devel](/docs/devel/app-pgverifybackup.html "PostgreSQL
devel - pg_verifybackup")

__

pg_verifybackup  
---  
[Prev](app-pgrestore.html "pg_restore")  | [Up](reference-client.html "PostgreSQL Client Applications") | PostgreSQL Client Applications | [Home](index.html "PostgreSQL 16.9 Documentation") |  [Next](app-psql.html "psql")  
  
* * *

## pg_verifybackup

pg_verifybackup â€” verify the integrity of a base backup of a PostgreSQL
cluster

## Synopsis

`pg_verifybackup` [_`option`_...]

## Description

pg_verifybackup is used to check the integrity of a database cluster backup
taken using `pg_basebackup` against a `backup_manifest` generated by the
server at the time of the backup. The backup must be stored in the "plain"
format; a "tar" format backup can be checked after extracting it.

It is important to note that the validation which is performed by
pg_verifybackup does not and cannot include every check which will be
performed by a running server when attempting to make use of the backup. Even
if you use this tool, you should still perform test restores and verify that
the resulting databases work as expected and that they appear to contain the
correct data. However, pg_verifybackup can detect many problems that commonly
occur due to storage problems or user error.

Backup verification proceeds in four stages. First, `pg_verifybackup` reads
the `backup_manifest` file. If that file does not exist, cannot be read, is
malformed, or fails verification against its own internal checksum,
`pg_verifybackup` will terminate with a fatal error.

Second, `pg_verifybackup` will attempt to verify that the data files currently
stored on disk are exactly the same as the data files which the server
intended to send, with some exceptions that are described below. Extra and
missing files will be detected, with a few exceptions. This step will ignore
the presence or absence of, or any modifications to, `postgresql.auto.conf`,
`standby.signal`, and `recovery.signal`, because it is expected that these
files may have been created or modified as part of the process of taking the
backup. It also won't complain about a `backup_manifest` file in the target
directory or about anything inside `pg_wal`, even though these files won't be
listed in the backup manifest. Only files are checked; the presence or absence
of directories is not verified, except indirectly: if a directory is missing,
any files it should have contained will necessarily also be missing.

Next, `pg_verifybackup` will checksum all the files, compare the checksums
against the values in the manifest, and emit errors for any files for which
the computed checksum does not match the checksum stored in the manifest. This
step is not performed for any files which produced errors in the previous
step, since they are already known to have problems. Files which were ignored
in the previous step are also ignored in this step.

Finally, `pg_verifybackup` will use the manifest to verify that the write-
ahead log records which will be needed to recover the backup are present and
that they can be read and parsed. The `backup_manifest` contains information
about which write-ahead log records will be needed, and `pg_verifybackup` will
use that information to invoke `pg_waldump` to parse those write-ahead log
records. The `--quiet` flag will be used, so that `pg_waldump` will only
report errors, without producing any other output. While this level of
verification is sufficient to detect obvious problems such as a missing file
or one whose internal checksums do not match, they aren't extensive enough to
detect every possible problem that might occur when attempting to recover. For
instance, a server bug that produces write-ahead log records that have the
correct checksums but specify nonsensical actions can't be detected by this
method.

Note that if extra WAL files which are not required to recover the backup are
present, they will not be checked by this tool, although a separate invocation
of `pg_waldump` could be used for that purpose. Also note that WAL
verification is version-specific: you must use the version of
`pg_verifybackup`, and thus of `pg_waldump`, which pertains to the backup
being checked. In contrast, the data file integrity checks should work with
any version of the server that generates a `backup_manifest` file.

## Options

pg_verifybackup accepts the following command-line arguments:

`-e`  
`--exit-on-error`

    

Exit as soon as a problem with the backup is detected. If this option is not
specified, `pg_verifybackup` will continue checking the backup even after a
problem has been detected, and will report all problems detected as errors.

`-i _`path`_`  
`--ignore=_`path`_`

    

Ignore the specified file or directory, which should be expressed as a
relative path name, when comparing the list of data files actually present in
the backup to those listed in the `backup_manifest` file. If a directory is
specified, this option affects the entire subtree rooted at that location.
Complaints about extra files, missing files, file size differences, or
checksum mismatches will be suppressed if the relative path name matches the
specified path name. This option can be specified multiple times.

`-m _`path`_`  
`--manifest-path=_`path`_`

    

Use the manifest file at the specified path, rather than one located in the
root of the backup directory.

`-n`  
`--no-parse-wal`

    

Don't attempt to parse write-ahead log data that will be needed to recover
from this backup.

`-P`  
`--progress`

    

Enable progress reporting. Turning this on will deliver a progress report
while verifying checksums.

This option cannot be used together with the option `--quiet`.

`-q`  
`--quiet`

    

Don't print anything when a backup is successfully verified.

`-s`  
`--skip-checksums`

    

Do not verify data file checksums. The presence or absence of files and the
sizes of those files will still be checked. This is much faster, because the
files themselves do not need to be read.

`-w _`path`_`  
`--wal-directory=_`path`_`

    

Try to parse WAL files stored in the specified directory, rather than in
`pg_wal`. This may be useful if the backup is stored in a separate location
from the WAL archive.

Other options are also available:

`-V`  
`--version`

    

Print the pg_verifybackup version and exit.

`-?`  
`--help`

    

Show help about pg_verifybackup command line arguments, and exit.

## Examples

To create a base backup of the server at `mydbserver` and verify the integrity
of the backup:

    
    
    $ **pg_basebackup -h mydbserver -D /usr/local/pgsql/data**
    $ **pg_verifybackup /usr/local/pgsql/data**
    

To create a base backup of the server at `mydbserver`, move the manifest
somewhere outside the backup directory, and verify the backup:

    
    
    $ **pg_basebackup -h mydbserver -D /usr/local/pgsql/backup1234**
    $ **mv /usr/local/pgsql/backup1234/backup_manifest /my/secure/location/backup_manifest.1234**
    $ **pg_verifybackup -m /my/secure/location/backup_manifest.1234 /usr/local/pgsql/backup1234**
    

To verify a backup while ignoring a file that was added manually to the backup
directory, and also skipping checksum verification:

    
    
    $ **pg_basebackup -h mydbserver -D /usr/local/pgsql/data**
    $ **edit /usr/local/pgsql/data/note.to.self**
    $ **pg_verifybackup --ignore=note.to.self --skip-checksums /usr/local/pgsql/data**
    

## See Also

[pg_basebackup](app-pgbasebackup.html "pg_basebackup")

* * *

[Prev](app-pgrestore.html "pg_restore")  | [Up](reference-client.html "PostgreSQL Client Applications") |  [Next](app-psql.html "psql")  
---|---|---  
pg_restore  | [Home](index.html "PostgreSQL 16.9 Documentation") |  psql  
  
## Submit correction

If you see anything in the documentation that is not correct, does not match
your experience with the particular feature or requires further clarification,
please use [this form](/account/comments/new/16/app-pgverifybackup.html/) to
report a documentation issue.

[Privacy Policy](/about/privacypolicy) | [Code of Conduct](/about/policies/coc/) | [About PostgreSQL](/about/) | [Contact](/about/contact/)  

Copyright (C) 1996-2025 The PostgreSQL Global Development Group

