[ ![PostgreSQL Elephant Logo](/media/img/about/press/elephant.png) ](/)

  * [Home](/ "Home")
  * [About](/about/ "About")
  * [Download](/download/ "Download")
  * [Documentation](/docs/ "Documentation")
  * [Community](/community/ "Community")
  * [Developers](/developer/ "Developers")
  * [Support](/support/ "Support")
  * [Donate](/about/donate/ "Donate")
  * [Your account](/account/ "Your account")

__

May 8, 2025: [ PostgreSQL 17.5, 16.9, 15.13, 14.18, and 13.21 Released! ](/about/news/postgresql-175-169-1513-1418-and-1321-released-3072/) | [ PostgreSQL 18 Beta 1 Released! ](/about/news/postgresql-18-beta-1-released-3070/)

[Documentation](/docs/ "Documentation") -> [PostgreSQL
16](/docs/16/index.html)

Supported Versions: [Current](/docs/current/auth-pg-hba-conf.html "PostgreSQL
17 - 21.1. The pg_hba.conf File") ([17](/docs/17/auth-pg-hba-conf.html
"PostgreSQL 17 - 21.1. The pg_hba.conf File")) / [16](/docs/16/auth-pg-hba-
conf.html "PostgreSQL 16 - 21.1. The pg_hba.conf File") / [15](/docs/15/auth-
pg-hba-conf.html "PostgreSQL 15 - 21.1. The pg_hba.conf File") /
[14](/docs/14/auth-pg-hba-conf.html "PostgreSQL 14 - 21.1. The pg_hba.conf
File") / [13](/docs/13/auth-pg-hba-conf.html "PostgreSQL 13 - 21.1. The
pg_hba.conf File")

Development Versions: [18](/docs/18/auth-pg-hba-conf.html "PostgreSQL 18 -
21.1. The pg_hba.conf File") / [devel](/docs/devel/auth-pg-hba-conf.html
"PostgreSQL devel - 21.1. The pg_hba.conf File")

Unsupported versions: [12](/docs/12/auth-pg-hba-conf.html "PostgreSQL 12 -
21.1. The pg_hba.conf File") / [11](/docs/11/auth-pg-hba-conf.html "PostgreSQL
11 - 21.1. The pg_hba.conf File") / [10](/docs/10/auth-pg-hba-conf.html
"PostgreSQL 10 - 21.1. The pg_hba.conf File") / [9.6](/docs/9.6/auth-pg-hba-
conf.html "PostgreSQL 9.6 - 21.1. The pg_hba.conf File") /
[9.5](/docs/9.5/auth-pg-hba-conf.html "PostgreSQL 9.5 - 21.1. The pg_hba.conf
File") / [9.4](/docs/9.4/auth-pg-hba-conf.html "PostgreSQL 9.4 - 21.1. The
pg_hba.conf File") / [9.3](/docs/9.3/auth-pg-hba-conf.html "PostgreSQL 9.3 -
21.1. The pg_hba.conf File") / [9.2](/docs/9.2/auth-pg-hba-conf.html
"PostgreSQL 9.2 - 21.1. The pg_hba.conf File") / [9.1](/docs/9.1/auth-pg-hba-
conf.html "PostgreSQL 9.1 - 21.1. The pg_hba.conf File") /
[9.0](/docs/9.0/auth-pg-hba-conf.html "PostgreSQL 9.0 - 21.1. The pg_hba.conf
File") / [8.4](/docs/8.4/auth-pg-hba-conf.html "PostgreSQL 8.4 - 21.1. The
pg_hba.conf File") / [8.3](/docs/8.3/auth-pg-hba-conf.html "PostgreSQL 8.3 -
21.1. The pg_hba.conf File") / [8.2](/docs/8.2/auth-pg-hba-conf.html
"PostgreSQL 8.2 - 21.1. The pg_hba.conf File")

__

21.1. The `pg_hba.conf` File  
---  
[Prev](client-authentication.html "Chapter 21. Client Authentication")  | [Up](client-authentication.html "Chapter 21. Client Authentication") | Chapter 21. Client Authentication | [Home](index.html "PostgreSQL 16.9 Documentation") |  [Next](auth-username-maps.html "21.2. User Name Maps")  
  
* * *

## 21.1. The `pg_hba.conf` File #

Client authentication is controlled by a configuration file, which
traditionally is named `pg_hba.conf` and is stored in the database cluster's
data directory. (HBA stands for host-based authentication.) A default
`pg_hba.conf` file is installed when the data directory is initialized by
[initdb](app-initdb.html "initdb"). It is possible to place the authentication
configuration file elsewhere, however; see the [hba_file](runtime-config-file-
locations.html#GUC-HBA-FILE) configuration parameter.

The general format of the `pg_hba.conf` file is a set of records, one per
line. Blank lines are ignored, as is any text after the `#` comment character.
A record can be continued onto the next line by ending the line with a
backslash. (Backslashes are not special except at the end of a line.) A record
is made up of a number of fields which are separated by spaces and/or tabs.
Fields can contain white space if the field value is double-quoted. Quoting
one of the keywords in a database, user, or address field (e.g., `all` or
`replication`) makes the word lose its special meaning, and just match a
database, user, or host with that name. Backslash line continuation applies
even within quoted text or comments.

Each authentication record specifies a connection type, a client IP address
range (if relevant for the connection type), a database name, a user name, and
the authentication method to be used for connections matching these
parameters. The first record with a matching connection type, client address,
requested database, and user name is used to perform authentication. There is
no “fall-through” or “backup”: if one record is chosen and the authentication
fails, subsequent records are not considered. If no record matches, access is
denied.

Each record can be an include directive or an authentication record. Include
directives specify files that can be included, that contain additional
records. The records will be inserted in place of the include directives.
Include directives only contain two fields: `include`, `include_if_exists` or
`include_dir` directive and the file or directory to be included. The file or
directory can be a relative or absolute path, and can be double-quoted. For
the `include_dir` form, all files not starting with a `.` and ending with
`.conf` will be included. Multiple files within an include directory are
processed in file name order (according to C locale rules, i.e., numbers
before letters, and uppercase letters before lowercase ones).

A record can have several formats:

    
    
    local               _database_  _user_  _auth-method_ [_auth-options_]
    host                _database_  _user_  _address_     _auth-method_  [_auth-options_]
    hostssl             _database_  _user_  _address_     _auth-method_  [_auth-options_]
    hostnossl           _database_  _user_  _address_     _auth-method_  [_auth-options_]
    hostgssenc          _database_  _user_  _address_     _auth-method_  [_auth-options_]
    hostnogssenc        _database_  _user_  _address_     _auth-method_  [_auth-options_]
    host                _database_  _user_  _IP-address_  _IP-mask_      _auth-method_  [_auth-options_]
    hostssl             _database_  _user_  _IP-address_  _IP-mask_      _auth-method_  [_auth-options_]
    hostnossl           _database_  _user_  _IP-address_  _IP-mask_      _auth-method_  [_auth-options_]
    hostgssenc          _database_  _user_  _IP-address_  _IP-mask_      _auth-method_  [_auth-options_]
    hostnogssenc        _database_  _user_  _IP-address_  _IP-mask_      _auth-method_  [_auth-options_]
    include             _file_
    include_if_exists   _file_
    include_dir         _directory_
    

The meaning of the fields is as follows:

`local`

    

This record matches connection attempts using Unix-domain sockets. Without a
record of this type, Unix-domain socket connections are disallowed.

`host`

    

This record matches connection attempts made using TCP/IP. `host` records
match SSL or non-SSL connection attempts as well as GSSAPI encrypted or non-
GSSAPI encrypted connection attempts.

### Note

Remote TCP/IP connections will not be possible unless the server is started
with an appropriate value for the [listen_addresses](runtime-config-
connection.html#GUC-LISTEN-ADDRESSES) configuration parameter, since the
default behavior is to listen for TCP/IP connections only on the local
loopback address `localhost`.

`hostssl`

    

This record matches connection attempts made using TCP/IP, but only when the
connection is made with SSL encryption.

To make use of this option the server must be built with SSL support.
Furthermore, SSL must be enabled by setting the [ssl](runtime-config-
connection.html#GUC-SSL) configuration parameter (see [Section 19.9](ssl-
tcp.html "19.9. Secure TCP/IP Connections with SSL") for more information).
Otherwise, the `hostssl` record is ignored except for logging a warning that
it cannot match any connections.

`hostnossl`

    

This record type has the opposite behavior of `hostssl`; it only matches
connection attempts made over TCP/IP that do not use SSL.

`hostgssenc`

    

This record matches connection attempts made using TCP/IP, but only when the
connection is made with GSSAPI encryption.

To make use of this option the server must be built with GSSAPI support.
Otherwise, the `hostgssenc` record is ignored except for logging a warning
that it cannot match any connections.

`hostnogssenc`

    

This record type has the opposite behavior of `hostgssenc`; it only matches
connection attempts made over TCP/IP that do not use GSSAPI encryption.

_`database`_

    

Specifies which database name(s) this record matches. The value `all`
specifies that it matches all databases. The value `sameuser` specifies that
the record matches if the requested database has the same name as the
requested user. The value `samerole` specifies that the requested user must be
a member of the role with the same name as the requested database.
(`samegroup` is an obsolete but still accepted spelling of `samerole`.)
Superusers are not considered to be members of a role for the purposes of
`samerole` unless they are explicitly members of the role, directly or
indirectly, and not just by virtue of being a superuser. The value
`replication` specifies that the record matches if a physical replication
connection is requested, however, it doesn't match with logical replication
connections. Note that physical replication connections do not specify any
particular database whereas logical replication connections do specify it.
Otherwise, this is the name of a specific PostgreSQL database or a regular
expression. Multiple database names and/or regular expressions can be supplied
by separating them with commas.

If the database name starts with a slash (`/`), the remainder of the name is
treated as a regular expression. (See [Section 9.7.3.1](functions-
matching.html#POSIX-SYNTAX-DETAILS "9.7.3.1. Regular Expression Details") for
details of PostgreSQL's regular expression syntax.)

A separate file containing database names and/or regular expressions can be
specified by preceding the file name with `@`.

_`user`_

    

Specifies which database user name(s) this record matches. The value `all`
specifies that it matches all users. Otherwise, this is either the name of a
specific database user, a regular expression (when starting with a slash
(`/`), or a group name preceded by `+`. (Recall that there is no real
distinction between users and groups in PostgreSQL; a `+` mark really means
“match any of the roles that are directly or indirectly members of this role”,
while a name without a `+` mark matches only that specific role.) For this
purpose, a superuser is only considered to be a member of a role if they are
explicitly a member of the role, directly or indirectly, and not just by
virtue of being a superuser. Multiple user names and/or regular expressions
can be supplied by separating them with commas.

If the user name starts with a slash (`/`), the remainder of the name is
treated as a regular expression. (See [Section 9.7.3.1](functions-
matching.html#POSIX-SYNTAX-DETAILS "9.7.3.1. Regular Expression Details") for
details of PostgreSQL's regular expression syntax.)

A separate file containing user names and/or regular expressions can be
specified by preceding the file name with `@`.

_`address`_

    

Specifies the client machine address(es) that this record matches. This field
can contain either a host name, an IP address range, or one of the special key
words mentioned below.

An IP address range is specified using standard numeric notation for the
range's starting address, then a slash (`/`) and a CIDR mask length. The mask
length indicates the number of high-order bits of the client IP address that
must match. Bits to the right of this should be zero in the given IP address.
There must not be any white space between the IP address, the `/`, and the
CIDR mask length.

Typical examples of an IPv4 address range specified this way are
`172.20.143.89/32` for a single host, or `172.20.143.0/24` for a small
network, or `10.6.0.0/16` for a larger one. An IPv6 address range might look
like `::1/128` for a single host (in this case the IPv6 loopback address) or
`fe80::7a31:c1ff:0000:0000/96` for a small network. `0.0.0.0/0` represents all
IPv4 addresses, and `::0/0` represents all IPv6 addresses. To specify a single
host, use a mask length of 32 for IPv4 or 128 for IPv6. In a network address,
do not omit trailing zeroes.

An entry given in IPv4 format will match only IPv4 connections, and an entry
given in IPv6 format will match only IPv6 connections, even if the represented
address is in the IPv4-in-IPv6 range.

You can also write `all` to match any IP address, `samehost` to match any of
the server's own IP addresses, or `samenet` to match any address in any subnet
that the server is directly connected to.

If a host name is specified (anything that is not an IP address range or a
special key word is treated as a host name), that name is compared with the
result of a reverse name resolution of the client's IP address (e.g., reverse
DNS lookup, if DNS is used). Host name comparisons are case insensitive. If
there is a match, then a forward name resolution (e.g., forward DNS lookup) is
performed on the host name to check whether any of the addresses it resolves
to are equal to the client's IP address. If both directions match, then the
entry is considered to match. (The host name that is used in `pg_hba.conf`
should be the one that address-to-name resolution of the client's IP address
returns, otherwise the line won't be matched. Some host name databases allow
associating an IP address with multiple host names, but the operating system
will only return one host name when asked to resolve an IP address.)

A host name specification that starts with a dot (`.`) matches a suffix of the
actual host name. So `.example.com` would match `foo.example.com` (but not
just `example.com`).

When host names are specified in `pg_hba.conf`, you should make sure that name
resolution is reasonably fast. It can be of advantage to set up a local name
resolution cache such as `nscd`. Also, you may wish to enable the
configuration parameter `log_hostname` to see the client's host name instead
of the IP address in the log.

These fields do not apply to `local` records.

### Note

Users sometimes wonder why host names are handled in this seemingly
complicated way, with two name resolutions including a reverse lookup of the
client's IP address. This complicates use of the feature in case the client's
reverse DNS entry is not set up or yields some undesirable host name. It is
done primarily for efficiency: this way, a connection attempt requires at most
two resolver lookups, one reverse and one forward. If there is a resolver
problem with some address, it becomes only that client's problem. A
hypothetical alternative implementation that only did forward lookups would
have to resolve every host name mentioned in `pg_hba.conf` during every
connection attempt. That could be quite slow if many names are listed. And if
there is a resolver problem with one of the host names, it becomes everyone's
problem.

Also, a reverse lookup is necessary to implement the suffix matching feature,
because the actual client host name needs to be known in order to match it
against the pattern.

Note that this behavior is consistent with other popular implementations of
host name-based access control, such as the Apache HTTP Server and TCP
Wrappers.

_`IP-address`_  
 _`IP-mask`_

    

These two fields can be used as an alternative to the _`IP-address`_`/`_`mask-
length`_ notation. Instead of specifying the mask length, the actual mask is
specified in a separate column. For example, `255.0.0.0` represents an IPv4
CIDR mask length of 8, and `255.255.255.255` represents a CIDR mask length of
32.

These fields do not apply to `local` records.

_`auth-method`_

    

Specifies the authentication method to use when a connection matches this
record. The possible choices are summarized here; details are in [Section
21.3](auth-methods.html "21.3. Authentication Methods"). All the options are
lower case and treated case sensitively, so even acronyms like `ldap` must be
specified as lower case.

`trust`

    

Allow the connection unconditionally. This method allows anyone that can
connect to the PostgreSQL database server to login as any PostgreSQL user they
wish, without the need for a password or any other authentication. See
[Section 21.4](auth-trust.html "21.4. Trust Authentication") for details.

`reject`

    

Reject the connection unconditionally. This is useful for “filtering out”
certain hosts from a group, for example a `reject` line could block a specific
host from connecting, while a later line allows the remaining hosts in a
specific network to connect.

`scram-sha-256`

    

Perform SCRAM-SHA-256 authentication to verify the user's password. See
[Section 21.5](auth-password.html "21.5. Password Authentication") for
details.

`md5`

    

Perform SCRAM-SHA-256 or MD5 authentication to verify the user's password. See
[Section 21.5](auth-password.html "21.5. Password Authentication") for
details.

`password`

    

Require the client to supply an unencrypted password for authentication. Since
the password is sent in clear text over the network, this should not be used
on untrusted networks. See [Section 21.5](auth-password.html "21.5. Password
Authentication") for details.

`gss`

    

Use GSSAPI to authenticate the user. This is only available for TCP/IP
connections. See [Section 21.6](gssapi-auth.html "21.6. GSSAPI
Authentication") for details. It can be used in conjunction with GSSAPI
encryption.

`sspi`

    

Use SSPI to authenticate the user. This is only available on Windows. See
[Section 21.7](sspi-auth.html "21.7. SSPI Authentication") for details.

`ident`

    

Obtain the operating system user name of the client by contacting the ident
server on the client and check if it matches the requested database user name.
Ident authentication can only be used on TCP/IP connections. When specified
for local connections, peer authentication will be used instead. See [Section
21.8](auth-ident.html "21.8. Ident Authentication") for details.

`peer`

    

Obtain the client's operating system user name from the operating system and
check if it matches the requested database user name. This is only available
for local connections. See [Section 21.9](auth-peer.html "21.9. Peer
Authentication") for details.

`ldap`

    

Authenticate using an LDAP server. See [Section 21.10](auth-ldap.html
"21.10. LDAP Authentication") for details.

`radius`

    

Authenticate using a RADIUS server. See [Section 21.11](auth-radius.html
"21.11. RADIUS Authentication") for details.

`cert`

    

Authenticate using SSL client certificates. See [Section 21.12](auth-cert.html
"21.12. Certificate Authentication") for details.

`pam`

    

Authenticate using the Pluggable Authentication Modules (PAM) service provided
by the operating system. See [Section 21.13](auth-pam.html "21.13. PAM
Authentication") for details.

`bsd`

    

Authenticate using the BSD Authentication service provided by the operating
system. See [Section 21.14](auth-bsd.html "21.14. BSD Authentication") for
details.

_`auth-options`_

    

After the _`auth-method`_ field, there can be field(s) of the form
_`name`_`=`_`value`_ that specify options for the authentication method.
Details about which options are available for which authentication methods
appear below.

In addition to the method-specific options listed below, there is a method-
independent authentication option `clientcert`, which can be specified in any
`hostssl` record. This option can be set to `verify-ca` or `verify-full`. Both
options require the client to present a valid (trusted) SSL certificate, while
`verify-full` additionally enforces that the `cn` (Common Name) in the
certificate matches the username or an applicable mapping. This behavior is
similar to the `cert` authentication method (see [Section 21.12](auth-
cert.html "21.12. Certificate Authentication")) but enables pairing the
verification of client certificates with any authentication method that
supports `hostssl` entries.

On any record using client certificate authentication (i.e. one using the
`cert` authentication method or one using the `clientcert` option), you can
specify which part of the client certificate credentials to match using the
`clientname` option. This option can have one of two values. If you specify
`clientname=CN`, which is the default, the username is matched against the
certificate's `Common Name (CN)`. If instead you specify `clientname=DN` the
username is matched against the entire `Distinguished Name (DN)` of the
certificate. This option is probably best used in conjunction with a username
map. The comparison is done with the `DN` in [RFC
2253](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc2253) format. To see the `DN`
of a client certificate in this format, do

    
    
    openssl x509 -in myclient.crt -noout -subject -nameopt RFC2253 | sed "s/^subject=//"
    

Care needs to be taken when using this option, especially when using regular
expression matching against the `DN`.

`include`

    

This line will be replaced by the contents of the given file.

`include_if_exists`

    

This line will be replaced by the content of the given file if the file
exists. Otherwise, a message is logged to indicate that the file has been
skipped.

`include_dir`

    

This line will be replaced by the contents of all the files found in the
directory, if they don't start with a `.` and end with `.conf`, processed in
file name order (according to C locale rules, i.e., numbers before letters,
and uppercase letters before lowercase ones).

Files included by `@` constructs are read as lists of names, which can be
separated by either whitespace or commas. Comments are introduced by `#`, just
as in `pg_hba.conf`, and nested `@` constructs are allowed. Unless the file
name following `@` is an absolute path, it is taken to be relative to the
directory containing the referencing file.

Since the `pg_hba.conf` records are examined sequentially for each connection
attempt, the order of the records is significant. Typically, earlier records
will have tight connection match parameters and weaker authentication methods,
while later records will have looser match parameters and stronger
authentication methods. For example, one might wish to use `trust`
authentication for local TCP/IP connections but require a password for remote
TCP/IP connections. In this case a record specifying `trust` authentication
for connections from 127.0.0.1 would appear before a record specifying
password authentication for a wider range of allowed client IP addresses.

The `pg_hba.conf` file is read on start-up and when the main server process
receives a SIGHUP signal. If you edit the file on an active system, you will
need to signal the postmaster (using `pg_ctl reload`, calling the SQL function
`pg_reload_conf()`, or using `kill -HUP`) to make it re-read the file.

### Note

The preceding statement is not true on Microsoft Windows: there, any changes
in the `pg_hba.conf` file are immediately applied by subsequent new
connections.

The system view [`pg_hba_file_rules`](view-pg-hba-file-rules.html
"54.9. pg_hba_file_rules") can be helpful for pre-testing changes to the
`pg_hba.conf` file, or for diagnosing problems if loading of the file did not
have the desired effects. Rows in the view with non-null `error` fields
indicate problems in the corresponding lines of the file.

### Tip

To connect to a particular database, a user must not only pass the
`pg_hba.conf` checks, but must have the `CONNECT` privilege for the database.
If you wish to restrict which users can connect to which databases, it's
usually easier to control this by granting/revoking `CONNECT` privilege than
to put the rules in `pg_hba.conf` entries.

Some examples of `pg_hba.conf` entries are shown in [Example 21.1](auth-pg-
hba-conf.html#EXAMPLE-PG-HBA.CONF "Example 21.1. Example pg_hba.conf
Entries"). See the next section for details on the different authentication
methods.

**Example  21.1. Example `pg_hba.conf` Entries**

    
    
    # Allow any user on the local system to connect to any database with
    # any database user name using Unix-domain sockets (the default for local
    # connections).
    #
    # TYPE  DATABASE        USER            ADDRESS                 METHOD
    local   all             all                                     trust
    
    # The same using local loopback TCP/IP connections.
    #
    # TYPE  DATABASE        USER            ADDRESS                 METHOD
    host    all             all             127.0.0.1/32            trust
    
    # The same as the previous line, but using a separate netmask column
    #
    # TYPE  DATABASE        USER            IP-ADDRESS      IP-MASK             METHOD
    host    all             all             127.0.0.1       255.255.255.255     trust
    
    # The same over IPv6.
    #
    # TYPE  DATABASE        USER            ADDRESS                 METHOD
    host    all             all             ::1/128                 trust
    
    # The same using a host name (would typically cover both IPv4 and IPv6).
    #
    # TYPE  DATABASE        USER            ADDRESS                 METHOD
    host    all             all             localhost               trust
    
    # The same using a regular expression for DATABASE, that allows connection
    # to any databases with a name beginning with "db" and finishing with a
    # number using two to four digits (like "db1234" or "db12").
    #
    # TYPE  DATABASE        USER            ADDRESS                 METHOD
    host    "/^db\d{2,4}$"  all             localhost               trust
    
    # Allow any user from any host with IP address 192.168.93.x to connect
    # to database "postgres" as the same user name that ident reports for
    # the connection (typically the operating system user name).
    #
    # TYPE  DATABASE        USER            ADDRESS                 METHOD
    host    postgres        all             192.168.93.0/24         ident
    
    # Allow any user from host 192.168.12.10 to connect to database
    # "postgres" if the user's password is correctly supplied.
    #
    # TYPE  DATABASE        USER            ADDRESS                 METHOD
    host    postgres        all             192.168.12.10/32        scram-sha-256
    
    # Allow any user from hosts in the example.com domain to connect to
    # any database if the user's password is correctly supplied.
    #
    # Require SCRAM authentication for most users, but make an exception
    # for user 'mike', who uses an older client that doesn't support SCRAM
    # authentication.
    #
    # TYPE  DATABASE        USER            ADDRESS                 METHOD
    host    all             mike            .example.com            md5
    host    all             all             .example.com            scram-sha-256
    
    # In the absence of preceding "host" lines, these three lines will
    # reject all connections from 192.168.54.1 (since that entry will be
    # matched first), but allow GSSAPI-encrypted connections from anywhere else
    # on the Internet.  The zero mask causes no bits of the host IP address to
    # be considered, so it matches any host.  Unencrypted GSSAPI connections
    # (which "fall through" to the third line since "hostgssenc" only matches
    # encrypted GSSAPI connections) are allowed, but only from 192.168.12.10.
    #
    # TYPE  DATABASE        USER            ADDRESS                 METHOD
    host    all             all             192.168.54.1/32         reject
    hostgssenc all          all             0.0.0.0/0               gss
    host    all             all             192.168.12.10/32        gss
    
    # Allow users from 192.168.x.x hosts to connect to any database, if
    # they pass the ident check.  If, for example, ident says the user is
    # "bryanh" and he requests to connect as PostgreSQL user "guest1", the
    # connection is allowed if there is an entry in pg_ident.conf for map
    # "omicron" that says "bryanh" is allowed to connect as "guest1".
    #
    # TYPE  DATABASE        USER            ADDRESS                 METHOD
    host    all             all             192.168.0.0/16          ident map=omicron
    
    # If these are the only four lines for local connections, they will
    # allow local users to connect only to their own databases (databases
    # with the same name as their database user name) except for users whose
    # name end with "helpdesk", administrators and members of role "support",
    # who can connect to all databases.  The file $PGDATA/admins contains a
    # list of names of administrators.  Passwords are required in all cases.
    #
    # TYPE  DATABASE        USER            ADDRESS                 METHOD
    local   sameuser        all                                     md5
    local   all             /^.*helpdesk$                           md5
    local   all             @admins                                 md5
    local   all             +support                                md5
    
    # The last two lines above can be combined into a single line:
    local   all             @admins,+support                        md5
    
    # The database column can also use lists and file names:
    local   db1,db2,@demodbs  all                                   md5
    

  

* * *

[Prev](client-authentication.html "Chapter 21. Client Authentication")  | [Up](client-authentication.html "Chapter 21. Client Authentication") |  [Next](auth-username-maps.html "21.2. User Name Maps")  
---|---|---  
Chapter 21. Client Authentication  | [Home](index.html "PostgreSQL 16.9 Documentation") |  21.2. User Name Maps  
  
## Submit correction

If you see anything in the documentation that is not correct, does not match
your experience with the particular feature or requires further clarification,
please use [this form](/account/comments/new/16/auth-pg-hba-conf.html/) to
report a documentation issue.

[Privacy Policy](/about/privacypolicy) | [Code of Conduct](/about/policies/coc/) | [About PostgreSQL](/about/) | [Contact](/about/contact/)  

Copyright (C) 1996-2025 The PostgreSQL Global Development Group

