[ ![PostgreSQL Elephant Logo](/media/img/about/press/elephant.png) ](/)

  * [Home](/ "Home")
  * [About](/about/ "About")
  * [Download](/download/ "Download")
  * [Documentation](/docs/ "Documentation")
  * [Community](/community/ "Community")
  * [Developers](/developer/ "Developers")
  * [Support](/support/ "Support")
  * [Donate](/about/donate/ "Donate")
  * [Your account](/account/ "Your account")

__

May 8, 2025: [ PostgreSQL 17.5, 16.9, 15.13, 14.18, and 13.21 Released! ](/about/news/postgresql-175-169-1513-1418-and-1321-released-3072/) | [ PostgreSQL 18 Beta 1 Released! ](/about/news/postgresql-18-beta-1-released-3070/)

[Documentation](/docs/ "Documentation") -> [PostgreSQL
16](/docs/16/index.html)

Supported Versions: [16](/docs/16/btree-support-funcs.html "PostgreSQL 16 -
67.3. B-Tree Support Functions") / [15](/docs/15/btree-support-funcs.html
"PostgreSQL 15 - 67.3. B-Tree Support Functions") / [14](/docs/14/btree-
support-funcs.html "PostgreSQL 14 - 67.3. B-Tree Support Functions") /
[13](/docs/13/btree-support-funcs.html "PostgreSQL 13 - 67.3. B-Tree Support
Functions")

Unsupported versions: [12](/docs/12/btree-support-funcs.html "PostgreSQL 12 -
67.3. B-Tree Support Functions") / [11](/docs/11/btree-support-funcs.html
"PostgreSQL 11 - 67.3. B-Tree Support Functions")

__

67.3. B-Tree Support Functions  
---  
[Prev](btree-behavior.html "67.2. Behavior of B-Tree Operator Classes")  | [Up](btree.html "Chapter 67. B-Tree Indexes") | Chapter 67. B-Tree Indexes | [Home](index.html "PostgreSQL 16.9 Documentation") |  [Next](btree-implementation.html "67.4. Implementation")  
  
* * *

## 67.3. B-Tree Support Functions #

As shown in [Table 38.9](xindex.html#XINDEX-BTREE-SUPPORT-TABLE
"Table 38.9. B-Tree Support Functions"), btree defines one required and four
optional support functions. The five user-defined methods are:

`order`

    

For each combination of data types that a btree operator family provides
comparison operators for, it must provide a comparison support function,
registered in `pg_amproc` with support function number 1 and
`amproclefttype`/`amprocrighttype` equal to the left and right data types for
the comparison (i.e., the same data types that the matching operators are
registered with in `pg_amop`). The comparison function must take two non-null
values _`A`_ and _`B`_ and return an `int32` value that is `<` `0`, `0`, or
`>` `0` when _`A`_ `<` _`B`_ , _`A`_ `=` _`B`_ , or _`A`_ `>` _`B`_ ,
respectively. A null result is disallowed: all values of the data type must be
comparable. See `src/backend/access/nbtree/nbtcompare.c` for examples.

If the compared values are of a collatable data type, the appropriate
collation OID will be passed to the comparison support function, using the
standard `PG_GET_COLLATION()` mechanism.

`sortsupport`

    

Optionally, a btree operator family may provide _sort support_ function(s),
registered under support function number 2. These functions allow implementing
comparisons for sorting purposes in a more efficient way than naively calling
the comparison support function. The APIs involved in this are defined in
`src/include/utils/sortsupport.h`.

`in_range`

    

Optionally, a btree operator family may provide _in_range_ support
function(s), registered under support function number 3. These are not used
during btree index operations; rather, they extend the semantics of the
operator family so that it can support window clauses containing the `RANGE`
_`offset`_ `PRECEDING` and `RANGE` _`offset`_ `FOLLOWING` frame bound types
(see [Section 4.2.8](sql-expressions.html#SYNTAX-WINDOW-FUNCTIONS
"4.2.8. Window Function Calls")). Fundamentally, the extra information
provided is how to add or subtract an _`offset`_ value in a way that is
compatible with the family's data ordering.

An `in_range` function must have the signature

    
    
    in_range(_val_ type1, _base_ type1, _offset_ type2, _sub_ bool, _less_ bool)
    returns bool
    

_`val`_ and _`base`_ must be of the same type, which is one of the types
supported by the operator family (i.e., a type for which it provides an
ordering). However, _`offset`_ could be of a different type, which might be
one otherwise unsupported by the family. An example is that the built-in
`time_ops` family provides an `in_range` function that has _`offset`_ of type
`interval`. A family can provide `in_range` functions for any of its supported
types and one or more _`offset`_ types. Each `in_range` function should be
entered in `pg_amproc` with `amproclefttype` equal to `type1` and
`amprocrighttype` equal to `type2`.

The essential semantics of an `in_range` function depend on the two Boolean
flag parameters. It should add or subtract _`base`_ and _`offset`_ , then
compare _`val`_ to the result, as follows:

  * if `!`_`sub`_ and `!`_`less`_ , return _`val`_ `>=` (_`base`_ `+` _`offset`_)

  * if `!`_`sub`_ and _`less`_ , return _`val`_ `<=` (_`base`_ `+` _`offset`_)

  * if _`sub`_ and `!`_`less`_ , return _`val`_ `>=` (_`base`_ `-` _`offset`_)

  * if _`sub`_ and _`less`_ , return _`val`_ `<=` (_`base`_ `-` _`offset`_)

Before doing so, the function should check the sign of _`offset`_ : if it is
less than zero, raise error `ERRCODE_INVALID_PRECEDING_OR_FOLLOWING_SIZE`
(22013) with error text like “invalid preceding or following size in window
function”. (This is required by the SQL standard, although nonstandard
operator families might perhaps choose to ignore this restriction, since there
seems to be little semantic necessity for it.) This requirement is delegated
to the `in_range` function so that the core code needn't understand what “less
than zero” means for a particular data type.

An additional expectation is that `in_range` functions should, if practical,
avoid throwing an error if _`base`_ `+` _`offset`_ or _`base`_ `-` _`offset`_
would overflow. The correct comparison result can be determined even if that
value would be out of the data type's range. Note that if the data type
includes concepts such as “infinity” or “NaN”, extra care may be needed to
ensure that `in_range`'s results agree with the normal sort order of the
operator family.

The results of the `in_range` function must be consistent with the sort
ordering imposed by the operator family. To be precise, given any fixed values
of _`offset`_ and _`sub`_ , then:

  * If `in_range` with _`less`_ = true is true for some _`val1`_ and _`base`_ , it must be true for every _`val2`_ `<=` _`val1`_ with the same _`base`_.

  * If `in_range` with _`less`_ = true is false for some _`val1`_ and _`base`_ , it must be false for every _`val2`_ `>=` _`val1`_ with the same _`base`_.

  * If `in_range` with _`less`_ = true is true for some _`val`_ and _`base1`_ , it must be true for every _`base2`_ `>=` _`base1`_ with the same _`val`_.

  * If `in_range` with _`less`_ = true is false for some _`val`_ and _`base1`_ , it must be false for every _`base2`_ `<=` _`base1`_ with the same _`val`_.

Analogous statements with inverted conditions hold when _`less`_ = false.

If the type being ordered (`type1`) is collatable, the appropriate collation
OID will be passed to the `in_range` function, using the standard
PG_GET_COLLATION() mechanism.

`in_range` functions need not handle NULL inputs, and typically will be marked
strict.

`equalimage`

    

Optionally, a btree operator family may provide `equalimage` (“equality
implies image equality”) support functions, registered under support function
number 4. These functions allow the core code to determine when it is safe to
apply the btree deduplication optimization. Currently, `equalimage` functions
are only called when building or rebuilding an index.

An `equalimage` function must have the signature

    
    
    equalimage(_opcintype_ oid) returns bool
    

The return value is static information about an operator class and collation.
Returning `true` indicates that the `order` function for the operator class is
guaranteed to only return `0` (“arguments are equal”) when its _`A`_ and _`B`_
arguments are also interchangeable without any loss of semantic information.
Not registering an `equalimage` function or returning `false` indicates that
this condition cannot be assumed to hold.

The _`opcintype`_ argument is the ``pg_type`.oid` of the data type that the
operator class indexes. This is a convenience that allows reuse of the same
underlying `equalimage` function across operator classes. If _`opcintype`_ is
a collatable data type, the appropriate collation OID will be passed to the
`equalimage` function, using the standard `PG_GET_COLLATION()` mechanism.

As far as the operator class is concerned, returning `true` indicates that
deduplication is safe (or safe for the collation whose OID was passed to its
`equalimage` function). However, the core code will only deem deduplication
safe for an index when _every_ indexed column uses an operator class that
registers an `equalimage` function, and each function actually returns `true`
when called.

Image equality is _almost_ the same condition as simple bitwise equality.
There is one subtle difference: When indexing a varlena data type, the on-disk
representation of two image equal datums may not be bitwise equal due to
inconsistent application of TOAST compression on input. Formally, when an
operator class's `equalimage` function returns `true`, it is safe to assume
that the `datum_image_eq()` C function will always agree with the operator
class's `order` function (provided that the same collation OID is passed to
both the `equalimage` and `order` functions).

The core code is fundamentally unable to deduce anything about the “equality
implies image equality” status of an operator class within a multiple-data-
type family based on details from other operator classes in the same family.
Also, it is not sensible for an operator family to register a cross-type
`equalimage` function, and attempting to do so will result in an error. This
is because “equality implies image equality” status does not just depend on
sorting/equality semantics, which are more or less defined at the operator
family level. In general, the semantics that one particular data type
implements must be considered separately.

The convention followed by the operator classes included with the core
PostgreSQL distribution is to register a stock, generic `equalimage` function.
Most operator classes register `btequalimage()`, which indicates that
deduplication is safe unconditionally. Operator classes for collatable data
types such as `text` register `btvarstrequalimage()`, which indicates that
deduplication is safe with deterministic collations. Best practice for third-
party extensions is to register their own custom function to retain control.

`options`

    

Optionally, a B-tree operator family may provide `options` (“operator class
specific options”) support functions, registered under support function number
5. These functions define a set of user-visible parameters that control
operator class behavior.

An `options` support function must have the signature

    
    
    options(_relopts_ local_relopts *) returns void
    

The function is passed a pointer to a `local_relopts` struct, which needs to
be filled with a set of operator class specific options. The options can be
accessed from other support functions using the `PG_HAS_OPCLASS_OPTIONS()` and
`PG_GET_OPCLASS_OPTIONS()` macros.

Currently, no B-Tree operator class has an `options` support function. B-tree
doesn't allow flexible representation of keys like GiST, SP-GiST, GIN and BRIN
do. So, `options` probably doesn't have much application in the current B-tree
index access method. Nevertheless, this support function was added to B-tree
for uniformity, and will probably find uses during further evolution of B-tree
in PostgreSQL.

* * *

[Prev](btree-behavior.html "67.2. Behavior of B-Tree Operator Classes")  | [Up](btree.html "Chapter 67. B-Tree Indexes") |  [Next](btree-implementation.html "67.4. Implementation")  
---|---|---  
67.2. Behavior of B-Tree Operator Classes  | [Home](index.html "PostgreSQL 16.9 Documentation") |  67.4. Implementation  
  
## Submit correction

If you see anything in the documentation that is not correct, does not match
your experience with the particular feature or requires further clarification,
please use [this form](/account/comments/new/16/btree-support-funcs.html/) to
report a documentation issue.

[Privacy Policy](/about/privacypolicy) | [Code of Conduct](/about/policies/coc/) | [About PostgreSQL](/about/) | [Contact](/about/contact/)  

Copyright (C) 1996-2025 The PostgreSQL Global Development Group

