[ ![PostgreSQL Elephant Logo](/media/img/about/press/elephant.png) ](/)

  * [Home](/ "Home")
  * [About](/about/ "About")
  * [Download](/download/ "Download")
  * [Documentation](/docs/ "Documentation")
  * [Community](/community/ "Community")
  * [Developers](/developer/ "Developers")
  * [Support](/support/ "Support")
  * [Donate](/about/donate/ "Donate")
  * [Your account](/account/ "Your account")

__

May 8, 2025: [ PostgreSQL 17.5, 16.9, 15.13, 14.18, and 13.21 Released! ](/about/news/postgresql-175-169-1513-1418-and-1321-released-3072/) | [ PostgreSQL 18 Beta 1 Released! ](/about/news/postgresql-18-beta-1-released-3070/)

[Documentation](/docs/ "Documentation") -> [PostgreSQL
16](/docs/16/index.html)

Supported Versions: [16](/docs/16/btree-implementation.html "PostgreSQL 16 -
67.4. Implementation") / [15](/docs/15/btree-implementation.html "PostgreSQL
15 - 67.4. Implementation") / [14](/docs/14/btree-implementation.html
"PostgreSQL 14 - 67.4. Implementation") / [13](/docs/13/btree-
implementation.html "PostgreSQL 13 - 67.4. Implementation")

Unsupported versions: [12](/docs/12/btree-implementation.html "PostgreSQL 12 -
67.4. Implementation") / [11](/docs/11/btree-implementation.html "PostgreSQL
11 - 67.4. Implementation")

__

67.4. Implementation  
---  
[Prev](btree-support-funcs.html "67.3. B-Tree Support Functions")  | [Up](btree.html "Chapter 67. B-Tree Indexes") | Chapter 67. B-Tree Indexes | [Home](index.html "PostgreSQL 16.9 Documentation") |  [Next](gist.html "Chapter 68. GiST Indexes")  
  
* * *

## 67.4. Implementation #

[67.4.1. B-Tree Structure](btree-implementation.html#BTREE-STRUCTURE)

[67.4.2. Bottom-up Index Deletion](btree-implementation.html#BTREE-DELETION)

[67.4.3. Deduplication](btree-implementation.html#BTREE-DEDUPLICATION)

This section covers B-Tree index implementation details that may be of use to
advanced users. See `src/backend/access/nbtree/README` in the source
distribution for a much more detailed, internals-focused description of the
B-Tree implementation.

### 67.4.1. B-Tree Structure #

PostgreSQL B-Tree indexes are multi-level tree structures, where each level of
the tree can be used as a doubly-linked list of pages. A single metapage is
stored in a fixed position at the start of the first segment file of the
index. All other pages are either leaf pages or internal pages. Leaf pages are
the pages on the lowest level of the tree. All other levels consist of
internal pages. Each leaf page contains tuples that point to table rows. Each
internal page contains tuples that point to the next level down in the tree.
Typically, over 99% of all pages are leaf pages. Both internal pages and leaf
pages use the standard page format described in [Section 73.6](storage-page-
layout.html "73.6. Database Page Layout").

New leaf pages are added to a B-Tree index when an existing leaf page cannot
fit an incoming tuple. A _page split_ operation makes room for items that
originally belonged on the overflowing page by moving a portion of the items
to a new page. Page splits must also insert a new _downlink_ to the new page
in the parent page, which may cause the parent to split in turn. Page splits
“cascade upwards” in a recursive fashion. When the root page finally cannot
fit a new downlink, a _root page split_ operation takes place. This adds a new
level to the tree structure by creating a new root page that is one level
above the original root page.

### 67.4.2. Bottom-up Index Deletion #

B-Tree indexes are not directly aware that under MVCC, there might be multiple
extant versions of the same logical table row; to an index, each tuple is an
independent object that needs its own index entry. “Version churn” tuples may
sometimes accumulate and adversely affect query latency and throughput. This
typically occurs with `UPDATE`-heavy workloads where most individual updates
cannot apply the [HOT optimization.](storage-hot.html "73.7. Heap-Only Tuples
\(HOT\)") Changing the value of only one column covered by one index during an
`UPDATE` _always_ necessitates a new set of index tuples — one for _each and
every_ index on the table. Note in particular that this includes indexes that
were not “logically modified” by the `UPDATE`. All indexes will need a
successor physical index tuple that points to the latest version in the table.
Each new tuple within each index will generally need to coexist with the
original “updated” tuple for a short period of time (typically until shortly
after the `UPDATE` transaction commits).

B-Tree indexes incrementally delete version churn index tuples by performing
_bottom-up index deletion_ passes. Each deletion pass is triggered in reaction
to an anticipated “version churn page split”. This only happens with indexes
that are not logically modified by `UPDATE` statements, where concentrated
build up of obsolete versions in particular pages would occur otherwise. A
page split will usually be avoided, though it's possible that certain
implementation-level heuristics will fail to identify and delete even one
garbage index tuple (in which case a page split or deduplication pass resolves
the issue of an incoming new tuple not fitting on a leaf page). The worst-case
number of versions that any index scan must traverse (for any single logical
row) is an important contributor to overall system responsiveness and
throughput. A bottom-up index deletion pass targets suspected garbage tuples
in a single leaf page based on _qualitative_ distinctions involving logical
rows and versions. This contrasts with the “top-down” index cleanup performed
by autovacuum workers, which is triggered when certain _quantitative_ table-
level thresholds are exceeded (see [Section 25.1.6](routine-
vacuuming.html#AUTOVACUUM "25.1.6. The Autovacuum Daemon")).

### Note

Not all deletion operations that are performed within B-Tree indexes are
bottom-up deletion operations. There is a distinct category of index tuple
deletion: _simple index tuple deletion_. This is a deferred maintenance
operation that deletes index tuples that are known to be safe to delete (those
whose item identifier's `LP_DEAD` bit is already set). Like bottom-up index
deletion, simple index deletion takes place at the point that a page split is
anticipated as a way of avoiding the split.

Simple deletion is opportunistic in the sense that it can only take place when
recent index scans set the `LP_DEAD` bits of affected items in passing. Prior
to PostgreSQL 14, the only category of B-Tree deletion was simple deletion.
The main differences between it and bottom-up deletion are that only the
former is opportunistically driven by the activity of passing index scans,
while only the latter specifically targets version churn from `UPDATE`s that
do not logically modify indexed columns.

Bottom-up index deletion performs the vast majority of all garbage index tuple
cleanup for particular indexes with certain workloads. This is expected with
any B-Tree index that is subject to significant version churn from `UPDATE`s
that rarely or never logically modify the columns that the index covers. The
average and worst-case number of versions per logical row can be kept low
purely through targeted incremental deletion passes. It's quite possible that
the on-disk size of certain indexes will never increase by even one single
page/block despite _constant_ version churn from `UPDATE`s. Even then, an
exhaustive “clean sweep” by a `VACUUM` operation (typically run in an
autovacuum worker process) will eventually be required as a part of
_collective_ cleanup of the table and each of its indexes.

Unlike `VACUUM`, bottom-up index deletion does not provide any strong
guarantees about how old the oldest garbage index tuple may be. No index can
be permitted to retain “floating garbage” index tuples that became dead prior
to a conservative cutoff point shared by the table and all of its indexes
collectively. This fundamental table-level invariant makes it safe to recycle
table TIDs. This is how it is possible for distinct logical rows to reuse the
same table TID over time (though this can never happen with two logical rows
whose lifetimes span the same `VACUUM` cycle).

### 67.4.3. Deduplication #

A duplicate is a leaf page tuple (a tuple that points to a table row) where
_all_ indexed key columns have values that match corresponding column values
from at least one other leaf page tuple in the same index. Duplicate tuples
are quite common in practice. B-Tree indexes can use a special, space-
efficient representation for duplicates when an optional technique is enabled:
_deduplication_.

Deduplication works by periodically merging groups of duplicate tuples
together, forming a single _posting list_ tuple for each group. The column key
value(s) only appear once in this representation. This is followed by a sorted
array of TIDs that point to rows in the table. This significantly reduces the
storage size of indexes where each value (or each distinct combination of
column values) appears several times on average. The latency of queries can be
reduced significantly. Overall query throughput may increase significantly.
The overhead of routine index vacuuming may also be reduced significantly.

### Note

B-Tree deduplication is just as effective with “duplicates” that contain a
NULL value, even though NULL values are never equal to each other according to
the `=` member of any B-Tree operator class. As far as any part of the
implementation that understands the on-disk B-Tree structure is concerned,
NULL is just another value from the domain of indexed values.

The deduplication process occurs lazily, when a new item is inserted that
cannot fit on an existing leaf page, though only when index tuple deletion
could not free sufficient space for the new item (typically deletion is
briefly considered and then skipped over). Unlike GIN posting list tuples,
B-Tree posting list tuples do not need to expand every time a new duplicate is
inserted; they are merely an alternative physical representation of the
original logical contents of the leaf page. This design prioritizes consistent
performance with mixed read-write workloads. Most client applications will at
least see a moderate performance benefit from using deduplication.
Deduplication is enabled by default.

`CREATE INDEX` and `REINDEX` apply deduplication to create posting list
tuples, though the strategy they use is slightly different. Each group of
duplicate ordinary tuples encountered in the sorted input taken from the table
is merged into a posting list tuple _before_ being added to the current
pending leaf page. Individual posting list tuples are packed with as many TIDs
as possible. Leaf pages are written out in the usual way, without any separate
deduplication pass. This strategy is well-suited to `CREATE INDEX` and
`REINDEX` because they are once-off batch operations.

Write-heavy workloads that don't benefit from deduplication due to having few
or no duplicate values in indexes will incur a small, fixed performance
penalty (unless deduplication is explicitly disabled). The `deduplicate_items`
storage parameter can be used to disable deduplication within individual
indexes. There is never any performance penalty with read-only workloads,
since reading posting list tuples is at least as efficient as reading the
standard tuple representation. Disabling deduplication isn't usually helpful.

It is sometimes possible for unique indexes (as well as unique constraints) to
use deduplication. This allows leaf pages to temporarily “absorb” extra
version churn duplicates. Deduplication in unique indexes augments bottom-up
index deletion, especially in cases where a long-running transaction holds a
snapshot that blocks garbage collection. The goal is to buy time for the
bottom-up index deletion strategy to become effective again. Delaying page
splits until a single long-running transaction naturally goes away can allow a
bottom-up deletion pass to succeed where an earlier deletion pass failed.

### Tip

A special heuristic is applied to determine whether a deduplication pass in a
unique index should take place. It can often skip straight to splitting a leaf
page, avoiding a performance penalty from wasting cycles on unhelpful
deduplication passes. If you're concerned about the overhead of deduplication,
consider setting `deduplicate_items = off` selectively. Leaving deduplication
enabled in unique indexes has little downside.

Deduplication cannot be used in all cases due to implementation-level
restrictions. Deduplication safety is determined when `CREATE INDEX` or
`REINDEX` is run.

Note that deduplication is deemed unsafe and cannot be used in the following
cases involving semantically significant differences among equal datums:

  * `text`, `varchar`, and `char` cannot use deduplication when a _nondeterministic_ collation is used. Case and accent differences must be preserved among equal datums.

  * `numeric` cannot use deduplication. Numeric display scale must be preserved among equal datums.

  * `jsonb` cannot use deduplication, since the `jsonb` B-Tree operator class uses `numeric` internally.

  * `float4` and `float8` cannot use deduplication. These types have distinct representations for `-0` and `0`, which are nevertheless considered equal. This difference must be preserved.

There is one further implementation-level restriction that may be lifted in a
future version of PostgreSQL:

  * Container types (such as composite types, arrays, or range types) cannot use deduplication.

There is one further implementation-level restriction that applies regardless
of the operator class or collation used:

  * `INCLUDE` indexes can never use deduplication.

* * *

[Prev](btree-support-funcs.html "67.3. B-Tree Support Functions")  | [Up](btree.html "Chapter 67. B-Tree Indexes") |  [Next](gist.html "Chapter 68. GiST Indexes")  
---|---|---  
67.3. B-Tree Support Functions  | [Home](index.html "PostgreSQL 16.9 Documentation") |  Chapter 68. GiST Indexes  
  
## Submit correction

If you see anything in the documentation that is not correct, does not match
your experience with the particular feature or requires further clarification,
please use [this form](/account/comments/new/16/btree-implementation.html/) to
report a documentation issue.

[Privacy Policy](/about/privacypolicy) | [Code of Conduct](/about/policies/coc/) | [About PostgreSQL](/about/) | [Contact](/about/contact/)  

Copyright (C) 1996-2025 The PostgreSQL Global Development Group

