[ ![PostgreSQL Elephant Logo](/media/img/about/press/elephant.png) ](/)

  * [Home](/ "Home")
  * [About](/about/ "About")
  * [Download](/download/ "Download")
  * [Documentation](/docs/ "Documentation")
  * [Community](/community/ "Community")
  * [Developers](/developer/ "Developers")
  * [Support](/support/ "Support")
  * [Donate](/about/donate/ "Donate")
  * [Your account](/account/ "Your account")

__

May 8, 2025: [ PostgreSQL 17.5, 16.9, 15.13, 14.18, and 13.21 Released! ](/about/news/postgresql-175-169-1513-1418-and-1321-released-3072/) | [ PostgreSQL 18 Beta 1 Released! ](/about/news/postgresql-18-beta-1-released-3070/)

[Documentation](/docs/ "Documentation") -> [PostgreSQL
16](/docs/16/index.html)

Supported Versions: [Current](/docs/current/collation.html "PostgreSQL 17 -
24.2. Collation Support") ([17](/docs/17/collation.html "PostgreSQL 17 -
24.2. Collation Support")) / [16](/docs/16/collation.html "PostgreSQL 16 -
24.2. Collation Support") / [15](/docs/15/collation.html "PostgreSQL 15 -
24.2. Collation Support") / [14](/docs/14/collation.html "PostgreSQL 14 -
24.2. Collation Support") / [13](/docs/13/collation.html "PostgreSQL 13 -
24.2. Collation Support")

Development Versions: [18](/docs/18/collation.html "PostgreSQL 18 -
24.2. Collation Support") / [devel](/docs/devel/collation.html "PostgreSQL
devel - 24.2. Collation Support")

Unsupported versions: [12](/docs/12/collation.html "PostgreSQL 12 -
24.2. Collation Support") / [11](/docs/11/collation.html "PostgreSQL 11 -
24.2. Collation Support") / [10](/docs/10/collation.html "PostgreSQL 10 -
24.2. Collation Support") / [9.6](/docs/9.6/collation.html "PostgreSQL 9.6 -
24.2. Collation Support") / [9.5](/docs/9.5/collation.html "PostgreSQL 9.5 -
24.2. Collation Support") / [9.4](/docs/9.4/collation.html "PostgreSQL 9.4 -
24.2. Collation Support") / [9.3](/docs/9.3/collation.html "PostgreSQL 9.3 -
24.2. Collation Support") / [9.2](/docs/9.2/collation.html "PostgreSQL 9.2 -
24.2. Collation Support") / [9.1](/docs/9.1/collation.html "PostgreSQL 9.1 -
24.2. Collation Support")

__

24.2. Collation Support  
---  
[Prev](locale.html "24.1. Locale Support")  | [Up](charset.html "Chapter 24. Localization") | Chapter 24. Localization | [Home](index.html "PostgreSQL 16.9 Documentation") |  [Next](multibyte.html "24.3. Character Set Support")  
  
* * *

## 24.2. Collation Support #

[24.2.1. Concepts](collation.html#COLLATION-CONCEPTS)

[24.2.2. Managing Collations](collation.html#COLLATION-MANAGING)

[24.2.3. ICU Custom Collations](collation.html#ICU-CUSTOM-COLLATIONS)

The collation feature allows specifying the sort order and character
classification behavior of data per-column, or even per-operation. This
alleviates the restriction that the `LC_COLLATE` and `LC_CTYPE` settings of a
database cannot be changed after its creation.

### 24.2.1. Concepts #

Conceptually, every expression of a collatable data type has a collation. (The
built-in collatable data types are `text`, `varchar`, and `char`. User-defined
base types can also be marked collatable, and of course a
[](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-DOMAIN)[domain](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-DOMAIN
"Domain") over a collatable data type is collatable.) If the expression is a
column reference, the collation of the expression is the defined collation of
the column. If the expression is a constant, the collation is the default
collation of the data type of the constant. The collation of a more complex
expression is derived from the collations of its inputs, as described below.

The collation of an expression can be the “default” collation, which means the
locale settings defined for the database. It is also possible for an
expression's collation to be indeterminate. In such cases, ordering operations
and other operations that need to know the collation will fail.

When the database system has to perform an ordering or a character
classification, it uses the collation of the input expression. This happens,
for example, with `ORDER BY` clauses and function or operator calls such as
`<`. The collation to apply for an `ORDER BY` clause is simply the collation
of the sort key. The collation to apply for a function or operator call is
derived from the arguments, as described below. In addition to comparison
operators, collations are taken into account by functions that convert between
lower and upper case letters, such as `lower`, `upper`, and `initcap`; by
pattern matching operators; and by `to_char` and related functions.

For a function or operator call, the collation that is derived by examining
the argument collations is used at run time for performing the specified
operation. If the result of the function or operator call is of a collatable
data type, the collation is also used at parse time as the defined collation
of the function or operator expression, in case there is a surrounding
expression that requires knowledge of its collation.

The _collation derivation_ of an expression can be implicit or explicit. This
distinction affects how collations are combined when multiple different
collations appear in an expression. An explicit collation derivation occurs
when a `COLLATE` clause is used; all other collation derivations are implicit.
When multiple collations need to be combined, for example in a function call,
the following rules are used:

  1. If any input expression has an explicit collation derivation, then all explicitly derived collations among the input expressions must be the same, otherwise an error is raised. If any explicitly derived collation is present, that is the result of the collation combination.

  2. Otherwise, all input expressions must have the same implicit collation derivation or the default collation. If any non-default collation is present, that is the result of the collation combination. Otherwise, the result is the default collation.

  3. If there are conflicting non-default implicit collations among the input expressions, then the combination is deemed to have indeterminate collation. This is not an error condition unless the particular function being invoked requires knowledge of the collation it should apply. If it does, an error will be raised at run-time.

For example, consider this table definition:

    
    
    CREATE TABLE test1 (
        a text COLLATE "de_DE",
        b text COLLATE "es_ES",
        ...
    );
    

Then in

    
    
    SELECT a < 'foo' FROM test1;
    

the `<` comparison is performed according to `de_DE` rules, because the
expression combines an implicitly derived collation with the default
collation. But in

    
    
    SELECT a < ('foo' COLLATE "fr_FR") FROM test1;
    

the comparison is performed using `fr_FR` rules, because the explicit
collation derivation overrides the implicit one. Furthermore, given

    
    
    SELECT a < b FROM test1;
    

the parser cannot determine which collation to apply, since the `a` and `b`
columns have conflicting implicit collations. Since the `<` operator does need
to know which collation to use, this will result in an error. The error can be
resolved by attaching an explicit collation specifier to either input
expression, thus:

    
    
    SELECT a < b COLLATE "de_DE" FROM test1;
    

or equivalently

    
    
    SELECT a COLLATE "de_DE" < b FROM test1;
    

On the other hand, the structurally similar case

    
    
    SELECT a || b FROM test1;
    

does not result in an error, because the `||` operator does not care about
collations: its result is the same regardless of the collation.

The collation assigned to a function or operator's combined input expressions
is also considered to apply to the function or operator's result, if the
function or operator delivers a result of a collatable data type. So, in

    
    
    SELECT * FROM test1 ORDER BY a || 'foo';
    

the ordering will be done according to `de_DE` rules. But this query:

    
    
    SELECT * FROM test1 ORDER BY a || b;
    

results in an error, because even though the `||` operator doesn't need to
know a collation, the `ORDER BY` clause does. As before, the conflict can be
resolved with an explicit collation specifier:

    
    
    SELECT * FROM test1 ORDER BY a || b COLLATE "fr_FR";
    

### 24.2.2. Managing Collations #

A collation is an SQL schema object that maps an SQL name to locales provided
by libraries installed in the operating system. A collation definition has a
_provider_ that specifies which library supplies the locale data. One standard
provider name is `libc`, which uses the locales provided by the operating
system C library. These are the locales used by most tools provided by the
operating system. Another provider is `icu`, which uses the external ICU
library. ICU locales can only be used if support for ICU was configured when
PostgreSQL was built.

A collation object provided by `libc` maps to a combination of `LC_COLLATE`
and `LC_CTYPE` settings, as accepted by the `setlocale()` system library call.
(As the name would suggest, the main purpose of a collation is to set
`LC_COLLATE`, which controls the sort order. But it is rarely necessary in
practice to have an `LC_CTYPE` setting that is different from `LC_COLLATE`, so
it is more convenient to collect these under one concept than to create
another infrastructure for setting `LC_CTYPE` per expression.) Also, a `libc`
collation is tied to a character set encoding (see [Section
24.3](multibyte.html "24.3. Character Set Support")). The same collation name
may exist for different encodings.

A collation object provided by `icu` maps to a named collator provided by the
ICU library. ICU does not support separate “collate” and “ctype” settings, so
they are always the same. Also, ICU collations are independent of the
encoding, so there is always only one ICU collation of a given name in a
database.

#### 24.2.2.1. Standard Collations #

On all platforms, the collations named `default`, `C`, and `POSIX` are
available. Additional collations may be available depending on operating
system support. The `default` collation selects the `LC_COLLATE` and
`LC_CTYPE` values specified at database creation time. The `C` and `POSIX`
collations both specify “traditional C” behavior, in which only the ASCII
letters “`A`” through “`Z`” are treated as letters, and sorting is done
strictly by character code byte values.

### Note

The `C` and `POSIX` locales may behave differently depending on the database
encoding.

Additionally, two SQL standard collation names are available:

`unicode`

    

This collation sorts using the Unicode Collation Algorithm with the Default
Unicode Collation Element Table. It is available in all encodings. ICU support
is required to use this collation. (This collation has the same behavior as
the ICU root locale; see [`und-x-icu` (for
“undefined”)](collation.html#COLLATION-MANAGING-PREDEFINED-ICU-UND-X-ICU).)

`ucs_basic`

    

This collation sorts by Unicode code point. It is only available for encoding
`UTF8`. (This collation has the same behavior as the libc locale specification
`C` in `UTF8` encoding.)

#### 24.2.2.2. Predefined Collations #

If the operating system provides support for using multiple locales within a
single program (`newlocale` and related functions), or if support for ICU is
configured, then when a database cluster is initialized, `initdb` populates
the system catalog `pg_collation` with collations based on all the locales it
finds in the operating system at the time.

To inspect the currently available locales, use the query `SELECT * FROM
pg_collation`, or the command `\dOS+` in psql.

##### 24.2.2.2.1. libc Collations #

For example, the operating system might provide a locale named `de_DE.utf8`.
`initdb` would then create a collation named `de_DE.utf8` for encoding `UTF8`
that has both `LC_COLLATE` and `LC_CTYPE` set to `de_DE.utf8`. It will also
create a collation with the `.utf8` tag stripped off the name. So you could
also use the collation under the name `de_DE`, which is less cumbersome to
write and makes the name less encoding-dependent. Note that, nevertheless, the
initial set of collation names is platform-dependent.

The default set of collations provided by `libc` map directly to the locales
installed in the operating system, which can be listed using the command
`locale -a`. In case a `libc` collation is needed that has different values
for `LC_COLLATE` and `LC_CTYPE`, or if new locales are installed in the
operating system after the database system was initialized, then a new
collation may be created using the [CREATE COLLATION](sql-createcollation.html
"CREATE COLLATION") command. New operating system locales can also be imported
en masse using the [`pg_import_system_collations()`](functions-
admin.html#FUNCTIONS-ADMIN-COLLATION "Table 9.98. Collation Management
Functions") function.

Within any particular database, only collations that use that database's
encoding are of interest. Other entries in `pg_collation` are ignored. Thus, a
stripped collation name such as `de_DE` can be considered unique within a
given database even though it would not be unique globally. Use of the
stripped collation names is recommended, since it will make one fewer thing
you need to change if you decide to change to another database encoding. Note
however that the `default`, `C`, and `POSIX` collations can be used regardless
of the database encoding.

PostgreSQL considers distinct collation objects to be incompatible even when
they have identical properties. Thus for example,

    
    
    SELECT a COLLATE "C" < b COLLATE "POSIX" FROM test1;
    

will draw an error even though the `C` and `POSIX` collations have identical
behaviors. Mixing stripped and non-stripped collation names is therefore not
recommended.

##### 24.2.2.2.2. ICU Collations #

With ICU, it is not sensible to enumerate all possible locale names. ICU uses
a particular naming system for locales, but there are many more ways to name a
locale than there are actually distinct locales. `initdb` uses the ICU APIs to
extract a set of distinct locales to populate the initial set of collations.
Collations provided by ICU are created in the SQL environment with names in
BCP 47 language tag format, with a “private use” extension `-x-icu` appended,
to distinguish them from libc locales.

Here are some example collations that might be created:

`de-x-icu` #

    

German collation, default variant

`de-AT-x-icu` #

    

German collation for Austria, default variant

(There are also, say, `de-DE-x-icu` or `de-CH-x-icu`, but as of this writing,
they are equivalent to `de-x-icu`.)

`und-x-icu` (for “undefined”) #

    

ICU “root” collation. Use this to get a reasonable language-agnostic sort
order.

Some (less frequently used) encodings are not supported by ICU. When the
database encoding is one of these, ICU collation entries in `pg_collation` are
ignored. Attempting to use one will draw an error along the lines of
“collation "de-x-icu" for encoding "WIN874" does not exist”.

#### 24.2.2.3. Creating New Collation Objects #

If the standard and predefined collations are not sufficient, users can create
their own collation objects using the SQL command [CREATE COLLATION](sql-
createcollation.html "CREATE COLLATION").

The standard and predefined collations are in the schema `pg_catalog`, like
all predefined objects. User-defined collations should be created in user
schemas. This also ensures that they are saved by `pg_dump`.

##### 24.2.2.3.1. libc Collations #

New libc collations can be created like this:

    
    
    CREATE COLLATION german (provider = libc, locale = 'de_DE');
    

The exact values that are acceptable for the `locale` clause in this command
depend on the operating system. On Unix-like systems, the command `locale -a`
will show a list.

Since the predefined libc collations already include all collations defined in
the operating system when the database instance is initialized, it is not
often necessary to manually create new ones. Reasons might be if a different
naming system is desired (in which case see also [Section
24.2.2.3.3](collation.html#COLLATION-COPY "24.2.2.3.3. Copying Collations"))
or if the operating system has been upgraded to provide new locale definitions
(in which case see also [`pg_import_system_collations()`](functions-
admin.html#FUNCTIONS-ADMIN-COLLATION "Table 9.98. Collation Management
Functions")).

##### 24.2.2.3.2. ICU Collations #

ICU collations can be created like:

    
    
    CREATE COLLATION german (provider = icu, locale = 'de-DE');
    

ICU locales are specified as a BCP 47 [Language Tag](locale.html#ICU-LANGUAGE-
TAG "24.1.5.3. Language Tag"), but can also accept most libc-style locale
names. If possible, libc-style locale names are transformed into language
tags.

New ICU collations can customize collation behavior extensively by including
collation attributes in the language tag. See [Section
24.2.3](collation.html#ICU-CUSTOM-COLLATIONS "24.2.3. ICU Custom Collations")
for details and examples.

##### 24.2.2.3.3. Copying Collations #

The command [CREATE COLLATION](sql-createcollation.html "CREATE COLLATION")
can also be used to create a new collation from an existing collation, which
can be useful to be able to use operating-system-independent collation names
in applications, create compatibility names, or use an ICU-provided collation
under a more readable name. For example:

    
    
    CREATE COLLATION german FROM "de_DE";
    CREATE COLLATION french FROM "fr-x-icu";
    

#### 24.2.2.4. Nondeterministic Collations #

A collation is either _deterministic_ or _nondeterministic_. A deterministic
collation uses deterministic comparisons, which means that it considers
strings to be equal only if they consist of the same byte sequence.
Nondeterministic comparison may determine strings to be equal even if they
consist of different bytes. Typical situations include case-insensitive
comparison, accent-insensitive comparison, as well as comparison of strings in
different Unicode normal forms. It is up to the collation provider to actually
implement such insensitive comparisons; the deterministic flag only determines
whether ties are to be broken using bytewise comparison. See also [Unicode
Technical Standard 10](https://www.unicode.org/reports/tr10) for more
information on the terminology.

To create a nondeterministic collation, specify the property `deterministic =
false` to `CREATE COLLATION`, for example:

    
    
    CREATE COLLATION ndcoll (provider = icu, locale = 'und', deterministic = false);
    

This example would use the standard Unicode collation in a nondeterministic
way. In particular, this would allow strings in different normal forms to be
compared correctly. More interesting examples make use of the ICU
customization facilities explained above. For example:

    
    
    CREATE COLLATION case_insensitive (provider = icu, locale = 'und-u-ks-level2', deterministic = false);
    CREATE COLLATION ignore_accents (provider = icu, locale = 'und-u-ks-level1-kc-true', deterministic = false);
    

All standard and predefined collations are deterministic, all user-defined
collations are deterministic by default. While nondeterministic collations
give a more “correct” behavior, especially when considering the full power of
Unicode and its many special cases, they also have some drawbacks. Foremost,
their use leads to a performance penalty. Note, in particular, that B-tree
cannot use deduplication with indexes that use a nondeterministic collation.
Also, certain operations are not possible with nondeterministic collations,
such as pattern matching operations. Therefore, they should be used only in
cases where they are specifically wanted.

### Tip

To deal with text in different Unicode normalization forms, it is also an
option to use the functions/expressions `normalize` and `is normalized` to
preprocess or check the strings, instead of using nondeterministic collations.
There are different trade-offs for each approach.

### 24.2.3. ICU Custom Collations #

ICU allows extensive control over collation behavior by defining new
collations with collation settings as a part of the language tag. These
settings can modify the collation order to suit a variety of needs. For
instance:

    
    
    -- ignore differences in accents and case
    CREATE COLLATION ignore_accent_case (provider = icu, deterministic = false, locale = 'und-u-ks-level1');
    SELECT 'Å' = 'A' COLLATE ignore_accent_case; -- true
    SELECT 'z' = 'Z' COLLATE ignore_accent_case; -- true
    
    -- upper case letters sort before lower case.
    CREATE COLLATION upper_first (provider = icu, locale = 'und-u-kf-upper');
    SELECT 'B' < 'b' COLLATE upper_first; -- true
    
    -- treat digits numerically and ignore punctuation
    CREATE COLLATION num_ignore_punct (provider = icu, deterministic = false, locale = 'und-u-ka-shifted-kn');
    SELECT 'id-45' < 'id-123' COLLATE num_ignore_punct; -- true
    SELECT 'w;x*y-z' = 'wxyz' COLLATE num_ignore_punct; -- true
    

Many of the available options are described in [Section
24.2.3.2](collation.html#ICU-COLLATION-SETTINGS "24.2.3.2. Collation Settings
for an ICU Locale"), or see [Section 24.2.3.5](collation.html#ICU-EXTERNAL-
REFERENCES "24.2.3.5. External References for ICU") for more details.

#### 24.2.3.1. ICU Comparison Levels #

Comparison of two strings (collation) in ICU is determined by a multi-level
process, where textual features are grouped into "levels". Treatment of each
level is controlled by the [collation settings](collation.html#ICU-COLLATION-
SETTINGS-TABLE "Table 24.2. ICU Collation Settings"). Higher levels correspond
to finer textual features.

[Table 24.1](collation.html#ICU-COLLATION-LEVELS "Table 24.1. ICU Collation
Levels") shows which textual feature differences are considered significant
when determining equality at the given level. The Unicode character `U+2063`
is an invisible separator, and as seen in the table, is ignored for at all
levels of comparison less than `identic`.

**Table  24.1. ICU Collation Levels**

Level | Description | `'f' = 'f'` | `'ab' = U&'a\2063b'` | `'x-y' = 'x_y'` | `'g' = 'G'` | `'n' = 'ñ'` | `'y' = 'z'`  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
level1 | Base Character | `true` | `true` | `true` | `true` | `true` | `false`  
level2 | Accents | `true` | `true` | `true` | `true` | `false` | `false`  
level3 | Case/Variants | `true` | `true` | `true` | `false` | `false` | `false`  
level4 | Punctuation | `true` | `true` | `false` | `false` | `false` | `false`  
identic | All | `true` | `false` | `false` | `false` | `false` | `false`  
  
  

At every level, even with full normalization off, basic normalization is
performed. For example, `'á'` may be composed of the code points
`U&'\0061\0301'` or the single code point `U&'\00E1'`, and those sequences
will be considered equal even at the `identic` level. To treat any difference
in code point representation as distinct, use a collation created with
`deterministic` set to `true`.

##### 24.2.3.1.1. Collation Level Examples #

    
    
    CREATE COLLATION level3 (provider = icu, deterministic = false, locale = 'und-u-ka-shifted-ks-level3');
    CREATE COLLATION level4 (provider = icu, deterministic = false, locale = 'und-u-ka-shifted-ks-level4');
    CREATE COLLATION identic (provider = icu, deterministic = false, locale = 'und-u-ka-shifted-ks-identic');
    
    -- invisible separator ignored at all levels except identic
    SELECT 'ab' = U&'a\2063b' COLLATE level4; -- true
    SELECT 'ab' = U&'a\2063b' COLLATE identic; -- false
    
    -- punctuation ignored at level3 but not at level 4
    SELECT 'x-y' = 'x_y' COLLATE level3; -- true
    SELECT 'x-y' = 'x_y' COLLATE level4; -- false
    

#### 24.2.3.2. Collation Settings for an ICU Locale #

[Table 24.2](collation.html#ICU-COLLATION-SETTINGS-TABLE "Table 24.2. ICU
Collation Settings") shows the available collation settings, which can be used
as part of a language tag to customize a collation.

**Table  24.2. ICU Collation Settings**

Key | Values | Default | Description  
---|---|---|---  
`co` | `emoji`, `phonebk`, `standard`, _`...`_ | `standard` | Collation type. See [Section 24.2.3.5](collation.html#ICU-EXTERNAL-REFERENCES "24.2.3.5. External References for ICU") for additional options and details.  
`ka` | `noignore`, `shifted` | `noignore` | If set to `shifted`, causes some characters (e.g. punctuation or space) to be ignored in comparison. Key `ks` must be set to `level3` or lower to take effect. Set key `kv` to control which character classes are ignored.  
`kb` | `true`, `false` | `false` | Backwards comparison for the level 2 differences. For example, locale `und-u-kb` sorts `'àe'` before `'aé'`.  
`kc` | `true`, `false` | `false` |  Separates case into a "level 2.5" that falls between accents and other level 3 features. If set to `true` and `ks` is set to `level1`, will ignore accents but take case into account.  
`kf` | `upper`, `lower`, `false` | `false` | If set to `upper`, upper case sorts before lower case. If set to `lower`, lower case sorts before upper case. If set to `false`, the sort depends on the rules of the locale.  
`kn` | `true`, `false` | `false` | If set to `true`, numbers within a string are treated as a single numeric value rather than a sequence of digits. For example, `'id-45'` sorts before `'id-123'`.  
`kk` | `true`, `false` | `false` |  Enable full normalization; may affect performance. Basic normalization is performed even when set to `false`. Locales for languages that require full normalization typically enable it by default. Full normalization is important in some cases, such as when multiple accents are applied to a single character. For example, the code point sequences `U&'\0065\0323\0302'` and `U&'\0065\0302\0323'` represent an `e` with circumflex and dot-below accents applied in different orders. With full normalization on, these code point sequences are treated as equal; otherwise they are unequal.  
`kr` | `space`, `punct`, `symbol`, `currency`, `digit`, _`script-id`_ |   |  Set to one or more of the valid values, or any BCP 47 _`script-id`_ , e.g. `latn` ("Latin") or `grek` ("Greek"). Multiple values are separated by "`-`". Redefines the ordering of classes of characters; those characters belonging to a class earlier in the list sort before characters belonging to a class later in the list. For instance, the value `digit-currency-space` (as part of a language tag like `und-u-kr-digit-currency-space`) sorts punctuation before digits and spaces.  
`ks` | `level1`, `level2`, `level3`, `level4`, `identic` | `level3` | Sensitivity (or "strength") when determining equality, with `level1` the least sensitive to differences and `identic` the most sensitive to differences. See [Table 24.1](collation.html#ICU-COLLATION-LEVELS "Table 24.1. ICU Collation Levels") for details.  
`kv` | `space`, `punct`, `symbol`, `currency` | `punct` | Classes of characters ignored during comparison at level 3. Setting to a later value includes earlier values; e.g. `symbol` also includes `punct` and `space` in the characters to be ignored. Key `ka` must be set to `shifted` and key `ks` must be set to `level3` or lower to take effect.  
  
  

Defaults may depend on locale. The above table is not meant to be complete.
See [Section 24.2.3.5](collation.html#ICU-EXTERNAL-REFERENCES
"24.2.3.5. External References for ICU") for additional options and details.

### Note

For many collation settings, you must create the collation with
`deterministic` set to `false` for the setting to have the desired effect (see
[Section 24.2.2.4](collation.html#COLLATION-NONDETERMINISTIC
"24.2.2.4. Nondeterministic Collations")). Additionally, some settings only
take effect when the key `ka` is set to `shifted` (see [Table
24.2](collation.html#ICU-COLLATION-SETTINGS-TABLE "Table 24.2. ICU Collation
Settings")).

#### 24.2.3.3. Collation Settings Examples #

`CREATE COLLATION "de-u-co-phonebk-x-icu" (provider = icu, locale = 'de-u-co-
phonebk');` #

    

German collation with phone book collation type

`CREATE COLLATION "und-u-co-emoji-x-icu" (provider = icu, locale = 'und-u-co-
emoji');` #

    

Root collation with Emoji collation type, per Unicode Technical Standard #51

`CREATE COLLATION latinlast (provider = icu, locale = 'en-u-kr-grek-latn');` #

    

Sort Greek letters before Latin ones. (The default is Latin before Greek.)

`CREATE COLLATION upperfirst (provider = icu, locale = 'en-u-kf-upper');` #

    

Sort upper-case letters before lower-case letters. (The default is lower-case
letters first.)

`CREATE COLLATION special (provider = icu, locale = 'en-u-kf-upper-kr-grek-
latn');` #

    

Combines both of the above options.

#### 24.2.3.4. ICU Tailoring Rules #

If the options provided by the collation settings shown above are not
sufficient, the order of collation elements can be changed with tailoring
rules, whose syntax is detailed at <https://unicode-
org.github.io/icu/userguide/collation/customization/>.

This small example creates a collation based on the root locale with a
tailoring rule:

    
    
    CREATE COLLATION custom (provider = icu, locale = 'und', rules = '&V << w <<< W');
    

With this rule, the letter “W” is sorted after “V”, but is treated as a
secondary difference similar to an accent. Rules like this are contained in
the locale definitions of some languages. (Of course, if a locale definition
already contains the desired rules, then they don't need to be specified again
explicitly.)

Here is a more complex example. The following statement sets up a collation
named `ebcdic` with rules to sort US-ASCII characters in the order of the
EBCDIC encoding.

    
    
    CREATE COLLATION ebcdic (provider = icu, locale = 'und',
    rules = $$
    & ' ' < '.' < '<' < '(' < '+' < \|
    < '&' < '!' < '$' < '*' < ')' < ';'
    < '-' < '/' < ',' < '%' < '_' < '>' < '?'
    < '`' < ':' < '#' < '@' < \' < '=' < '"'
    <*a-r < '~' <*s-z < '^' < '[' < ']'
    < '{' <*A-I < '}' <*J-R < '\' <*S-Z <*0-9
    $$);
    
    SELECT c
    FROM (VALUES ('a'), ('b'), ('A'), ('B'), ('1'), ('2'), ('!'), ('^')) AS x(c)
    ORDER BY c COLLATE ebcdic;
     c
    ---
     !
     a
     b
     ^
     A
     B
     1
     2
    

#### 24.2.3.5. External References for ICU #

This section ([Section 24.2.3](collation.html#ICU-CUSTOM-COLLATIONS
"24.2.3. ICU Custom Collations")) is only a brief overview of ICU behavior and
language tags. Refer to the following documents for technical details,
additional options, and new behavior:

  * [Unicode Technical Standard #35](https://www.unicode.org/reports/tr35/tr35-collation.html)

  * [BCP 47](https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/bcp47)

  * [CLDR repository](https://github.com/unicode-org/cldr/blob/master/common/bcp47/collation.xml)

  * <https://unicode-org.github.io/icu/userguide/locale/>

  * <https://unicode-org.github.io/icu/userguide/collation/>

* * *

[Prev](locale.html "24.1. Locale Support")  | [Up](charset.html "Chapter 24. Localization") |  [Next](multibyte.html "24.3. Character Set Support")  
---|---|---  
24.1. Locale Support  | [Home](index.html "PostgreSQL 16.9 Documentation") |  24.3. Character Set Support  
  
## Submit correction

If you see anything in the documentation that is not correct, does not match
your experience with the particular feature or requires further clarification,
please use [this form](/account/comments/new/16/collation.html/) to report a
documentation issue.

[Privacy Policy](/about/privacypolicy) | [Code of Conduct](/about/policies/coc/) | [About PostgreSQL](/about/) | [Contact](/about/contact/)  

Copyright (C) 1996-2025 The PostgreSQL Global Development Group

