[ ![PostgreSQL Elephant Logo](/media/img/about/press/elephant.png) ](/)

  * [Home](/ "Home")
  * [About](/about/ "About")
  * [Download](/download/ "Download")
  * [Documentation](/docs/ "Documentation")
  * [Community](/community/ "Community")
  * [Developers](/developer/ "Developers")
  * [Support](/support/ "Support")
  * [Donate](/about/donate/ "Donate")
  * [Your account](/account/ "Your account")

__

May 8, 2025: [ PostgreSQL 17.5, 16.9, 15.13, 14.18, and 13.21 Released! ](/about/news/postgresql-175-169-1513-1418-and-1321-released-3072/) | [ PostgreSQL 18 Beta 1 Released! ](/about/news/postgresql-18-beta-1-released-3070/)

[Documentation](/docs/ "Documentation") -> [PostgreSQL
16](/docs/16/index.html)

Supported Versions: [Current](/docs/current/datatype-numeric.html "PostgreSQL
17 - 8.1. Numeric Types") ([17](/docs/17/datatype-numeric.html "PostgreSQL 17
- 8.1. Numeric Types")) / [16](/docs/16/datatype-numeric.html "PostgreSQL 16 -
8.1. Numeric Types") / [15](/docs/15/datatype-numeric.html "PostgreSQL 15 -
8.1. Numeric Types") / [14](/docs/14/datatype-numeric.html "PostgreSQL 14 -
8.1. Numeric Types") / [13](/docs/13/datatype-numeric.html "PostgreSQL 13 -
8.1. Numeric Types")

Development Versions: [18](/docs/18/datatype-numeric.html "PostgreSQL 18 -
8.1. Numeric Types") / [devel](/docs/devel/datatype-numeric.html "PostgreSQL
devel - 8.1. Numeric Types")

Unsupported versions: [12](/docs/12/datatype-numeric.html "PostgreSQL 12 -
8.1. Numeric Types") / [11](/docs/11/datatype-numeric.html "PostgreSQL 11 -
8.1. Numeric Types") / [10](/docs/10/datatype-numeric.html "PostgreSQL 10 -
8.1. Numeric Types") / [9.6](/docs/9.6/datatype-numeric.html "PostgreSQL 9.6 -
8.1. Numeric Types") / [9.5](/docs/9.5/datatype-numeric.html "PostgreSQL 9.5 -
8.1. Numeric Types") / [9.4](/docs/9.4/datatype-numeric.html "PostgreSQL 9.4 -
8.1. Numeric Types") / [9.3](/docs/9.3/datatype-numeric.html "PostgreSQL 9.3 -
8.1. Numeric Types") / [9.2](/docs/9.2/datatype-numeric.html "PostgreSQL 9.2 -
8.1. Numeric Types") / [9.1](/docs/9.1/datatype-numeric.html "PostgreSQL 9.1 -
8.1. Numeric Types") / [9.0](/docs/9.0/datatype-numeric.html "PostgreSQL 9.0 -
8.1. Numeric Types") / [8.4](/docs/8.4/datatype-numeric.html "PostgreSQL 8.4 -
8.1. Numeric Types") / [8.3](/docs/8.3/datatype-numeric.html "PostgreSQL 8.3 -
8.1. Numeric Types") / [8.2](/docs/8.2/datatype-numeric.html "PostgreSQL 8.2 -
8.1. Numeric Types")

__

8.1. Numeric Types  
---  
[Prev](datatype.html "Chapter 8. Data Types")  | [Up](datatype.html "Chapter 8. Data Types") | Chapter 8. Data Types | [Home](index.html "PostgreSQL 16.9 Documentation") |  [Next](datatype-money.html "8.2. Monetary Types")  
  
* * *

## 8.1. Numeric Types #

[8.1.1. Integer Types](datatype-numeric.html#DATATYPE-INT)

[8.1.2. Arbitrary Precision Numbers](datatype-numeric.html#DATATYPE-NUMERIC-
DECIMAL)

[8.1.3. Floating-Point Types](datatype-numeric.html#DATATYPE-FLOAT)

[8.1.4. Serial Types](datatype-numeric.html#DATATYPE-SERIAL)

Numeric types consist of two-, four-, and eight-byte integers, four- and
eight-byte floating-point numbers, and selectable-precision decimals. [Table
8.2](datatype-numeric.html#DATATYPE-NUMERIC-TABLE "Table 8.2. Numeric Types")
lists the available types.

**Table  8.2. Numeric Types**

Name | Storage Size | Description | Range  
---|---|---|---  
`smallint` | 2 bytes | small-range integer | -32768 to +32767  
`integer` | 4 bytes | typical choice for integer | -2147483648 to +2147483647  
`bigint` | 8 bytes | large-range integer | -9223372036854775808 to +9223372036854775807  
`decimal` | variable | user-specified precision, exact | up to 131072 digits before the decimal point; up to 16383 digits after the decimal point  
`numeric` | variable | user-specified precision, exact | up to 131072 digits before the decimal point; up to 16383 digits after the decimal point  
`real` | 4 bytes | variable-precision, inexact | 6 decimal digits precision  
`double precision` | 8 bytes | variable-precision, inexact | 15 decimal digits precision  
`smallserial` | 2 bytes | small autoincrementing integer | 1 to 32767  
`serial` | 4 bytes | autoincrementing integer | 1 to 2147483647  
`bigserial` | 8 bytes | large autoincrementing integer | 1 to 9223372036854775807  
  
  

The syntax of constants for the numeric types is described in [Section
4.1.2](sql-syntax-lexical.html#SQL-SYNTAX-CONSTANTS "4.1.2. Constants"). The
numeric types have a full set of corresponding arithmetic operators and
functions. Refer to [Chapter 9](functions.html "Chapter 9. Functions and
Operators") for more information. The following sections describe the types in
detail.

### 8.1.1. Integer Types #

The types `smallint`, `integer`, and `bigint` store whole numbers, that is,
numbers without fractional components, of various ranges. Attempts to store
values outside of the allowed range will result in an error.

The type `integer` is the common choice, as it offers the best balance between
range, storage size, and performance. The `smallint` type is generally only
used if disk space is at a premium. The `bigint` type is designed to be used
when the range of the `integer` type is insufficient.

SQL only specifies the integer types `integer` (or `int`), `smallint`, and
`bigint`. The type names `int2`, `int4`, and `int8` are extensions, which are
also used by some other SQL database systems.

### 8.1.2. Arbitrary Precision Numbers #

The type `numeric` can store numbers with a very large number of digits. It is
especially recommended for storing monetary amounts and other quantities where
exactness is required. Calculations with `numeric` values yield exact results
where possible, e.g., addition, subtraction, multiplication. However,
calculations on `numeric` values are very slow compared to the integer types,
or to the floating-point types described in the next section.

We use the following terms below: The _precision_ of a `numeric` is the total
count of significant digits in the whole number, that is, the number of digits
to both sides of the decimal point. The _scale_ of a `numeric` is the count of
decimal digits in the fractional part, to the right of the decimal point. So
the number 23.5141 has a precision of 6 and a scale of 4. Integers can be
considered to have a scale of zero.

Both the maximum precision and the maximum scale of a `numeric` column can be
configured. To declare a column of type `numeric` use the syntax:

    
    
    NUMERIC(_precision_ , _scale_)
    

The precision must be positive, while the scale may be positive or negative
(see below). Alternatively:

    
    
    NUMERIC(_precision_)
    

selects a scale of 0. Specifying:

    
    
    NUMERIC
    

without any precision or scale creates an “unconstrained numeric” column in
which numeric values of any length can be stored, up to the implementation
limits. A column of this kind will not coerce input values to any particular
scale, whereas `numeric` columns with a declared scale will coerce input
values to that scale. (The SQL standard requires a default scale of 0, i.e.,
coercion to integer precision. We find this a bit useless. If you're concerned
about portability, always specify the precision and scale explicitly.)

### Note

The maximum precision that can be explicitly specified in a `numeric` type
declaration is 1000. An unconstrained `numeric` column is subject to the
limits described in [Table 8.2](datatype-numeric.html#DATATYPE-NUMERIC-TABLE
"Table 8.2. Numeric Types").

If the scale of a value to be stored is greater than the declared scale of the
column, the system will round the value to the specified number of fractional
digits. Then, if the number of digits to the left of the decimal point exceeds
the declared precision minus the declared scale, an error is raised. For
example, a column declared as

    
    
    NUMERIC(3, 1)
    

will round values to 1 decimal place and can store values between -99.9 and
99.9, inclusive.

Beginning in PostgreSQL 15, it is allowed to declare a `numeric` column with a
negative scale. Then values will be rounded to the left of the decimal point.
The precision still represents the maximum number of non-rounded digits. Thus,
a column declared as

    
    
    NUMERIC(2, -3)
    

will round values to the nearest thousand and can store values between -99000
and 99000, inclusive. It is also allowed to declare a scale larger than the
declared precision. Such a column can only hold fractional values, and it
requires the number of zero digits just to the right of the decimal point to
be at least the declared scale minus the declared precision. For example, a
column declared as

    
    
    NUMERIC(3, 5)
    

will round values to 5 decimal places and can store values between -0.00999
and 0.00999, inclusive.

### Note

PostgreSQL permits the scale in a `numeric` type declaration to be any value
in the range -1000 to 1000. However, the SQL standard requires the scale to be
in the range 0 to _`precision`_. Using scales outside that range may not be
portable to other database systems.

Numeric values are physically stored without any extra leading or trailing
zeroes. Thus, the declared precision and scale of a column are maximums, not
fixed allocations. (In this sense the `numeric` type is more akin to
`varchar(_`n`_)` than to `char(_`n`_)`.) The actual storage requirement is two
bytes for each group of four decimal digits, plus three to eight bytes
overhead.

In addition to ordinary numeric values, the `numeric` type has several special
values:

  
`Infinity`  
`-Infinity`  
`NaN`  

These are adapted from the IEEE 754 standard, and represent “infinity”,
“negative infinity”, and “not-a-number”, respectively. When writing these
values as constants in an SQL command, you must put quotes around them, for
example `UPDATE table SET x = '-Infinity'`. On input, these strings are
recognized in a case-insensitive manner. The infinity values can alternatively
be spelled `inf` and `-inf`.

The infinity values behave as per mathematical expectations. For example,
`Infinity` plus any finite value equals `Infinity`, as does `Infinity` plus
`Infinity`; but `Infinity` minus `Infinity` yields `NaN` (not a number),
because it has no well-defined interpretation. Note that an infinity can only
be stored in an unconstrained `numeric` column, because it notionally exceeds
any finite precision limit.

The `NaN` (not a number) value is used to represent undefined calculational
results. In general, any operation with a `NaN` input yields another `NaN`.
The only exception is when the operation's other inputs are such that the same
output would be obtained if the `NaN` were to be replaced by any finite or
infinite numeric value; then, that output value is used for `NaN` too. (An
example of this principle is that `NaN` raised to the zero power yields one.)

### Note

In most implementations of the “not-a-number” concept, `NaN` is not considered
equal to any other numeric value (including `NaN`). In order to allow
`numeric` values to be sorted and used in tree-based indexes, PostgreSQL
treats `NaN` values as equal, and greater than all non-`NaN` values.

The types `decimal` and `numeric` are equivalent. Both types are part of the
SQL standard.

When rounding values, the `numeric` type rounds ties away from zero, while (on
most machines) the `real` and `double precision` types round ties to the
nearest even number. For example:

    
    
    SELECT x,
      round(x::numeric) AS num_round,
      round(x::double precision) AS dbl_round
    FROM generate_series(-3.5, 3.5, 1) as x;
      x   | num_round | dbl_round
    ------+-----------+-----------
     -3.5 |        -4 |        -4
     -2.5 |        -3 |        -2
     -1.5 |        -2 |        -2
     -0.5 |        -1 |        -0
      0.5 |         1 |         0
      1.5 |         2 |         2
      2.5 |         3 |         2
      3.5 |         4 |         4
    (8 rows)
    

### 8.1.3. Floating-Point Types #

The data types `real` and `double precision` are inexact, variable-precision
numeric types. On all currently supported platforms, these types are
implementations of IEEE Standard 754 for Binary Floating-Point Arithmetic
(single and double precision, respectively), to the extent that the underlying
processor, operating system, and compiler support it.

Inexact means that some values cannot be converted exactly to the internal
format and are stored as approximations, so that storing and retrieving a
value might show slight discrepancies. Managing these errors and how they
propagate through calculations is the subject of an entire branch of
mathematics and computer science and will not be discussed here, except for
the following points:

  * If you require exact storage and calculations (such as for monetary amounts), use the `numeric` type instead.

  * If you want to do complicated calculations with these types for anything important, especially if you rely on certain behavior in boundary cases (infinity, underflow), you should evaluate the implementation carefully.

  * Comparing two floating-point values for equality might not always work as expected.

On all currently supported platforms, the `real` type has a range of around
1E-37 to 1E+37 with a precision of at least 6 decimal digits. The `double
precision` type has a range of around 1E-307 to 1E+308 with a precision of at
least 15 digits. Values that are too large or too small will cause an error.
Rounding might take place if the precision of an input number is too high.
Numbers too close to zero that are not representable as distinct from zero
will cause an underflow error.

By default, floating point values are output in text form in their shortest
precise decimal representation; the decimal value produced is closer to the
true stored binary value than to any other value representable in the same
binary precision. (However, the output value is currently never _exactly_
midway between two representable values, in order to avoid a widespread bug
where input routines do not properly respect the round-to-nearest-even rule.)
This value will use at most 17 significant decimal digits for `float8` values,
and at most 9 digits for `float4` values.

### Note

This shortest-precise output format is much faster to generate than the
historical rounded format.

For compatibility with output generated by older versions of PostgreSQL, and
to allow the output precision to be reduced, the [extra_float_digits](runtime-
config-client.html#GUC-EXTRA-FLOAT-DIGITS) parameter can be used to select
rounded decimal output instead. Setting a value of 0 restores the previous
default of rounding the value to 6 (for `float4`) or 15 (for `float8`)
significant decimal digits. Setting a negative value reduces the number of
digits further; for example -2 would round output to 4 or 13 digits
respectively.

Any value of [extra_float_digits](runtime-config-client.html#GUC-EXTRA-FLOAT-
DIGITS) greater than 0 selects the shortest-precise format.

### Note

Applications that wanted precise values have historically had to set
[extra_float_digits](runtime-config-client.html#GUC-EXTRA-FLOAT-DIGITS) to 3
to obtain them. For maximum compatibility between versions, they should
continue to do so.

In addition to ordinary numeric values, the floating-point types have several
special values:

  
`Infinity`  
`-Infinity`  
`NaN`  

These represent the IEEE 754 special values “infinity”, “negative infinity”,
and “not-a-number”, respectively. When writing these values as constants in an
SQL command, you must put quotes around them, for example `UPDATE table SET x
= '-Infinity'`. On input, these strings are recognized in a case-insensitive
manner. The infinity values can alternatively be spelled `inf` and `-inf`.

### Note

IEEE 754 specifies that `NaN` should not compare equal to any other floating-
point value (including `NaN`). In order to allow floating-point values to be
sorted and used in tree-based indexes, PostgreSQL treats `NaN` values as
equal, and greater than all non-`NaN` values.

PostgreSQL also supports the SQL-standard notations `float` and `float(_`p`_)`
for specifying inexact numeric types. Here, _`p`_ specifies the minimum
acceptable precision in _binary_ digits. PostgreSQL accepts `float(1)` to
`float(24)` as selecting the `real` type, while `float(25)` to `float(53)`
select `double precision`. Values of _`p`_ outside the allowed range draw an
error. `float` with no precision specified is taken to mean `double
precision`.

### 8.1.4. Serial Types #

### Note

This section describes a PostgreSQL-specific way to create an autoincrementing
column. Another way is to use the SQL-standard identity column feature,
described at [CREATE TABLE](sql-createtable.html "CREATE TABLE").

The data types `smallserial`, `serial` and `bigserial` are not true types, but
merely a notational convenience for creating unique identifier columns
(similar to the `AUTO_INCREMENT` property supported by some other databases).
In the current implementation, specifying:

    
    
    CREATE TABLE _tablename_ (
        _colname_ SERIAL
    );
    

is equivalent to specifying:

    
    
    CREATE SEQUENCE _tablename_ __colname_ _seq AS integer;
    CREATE TABLE _tablename_ (
        _colname_ integer NOT NULL DEFAULT nextval('_tablename_ __colname_ _seq')
    );
    ALTER SEQUENCE _tablename_ __colname_ _seq OWNED BY _tablename_._colname_ ;
    

Thus, we have created an integer column and arranged for its default values to
be assigned from a sequence generator. A `NOT NULL` constraint is applied to
ensure that a null value cannot be inserted. (In most cases you would also
want to attach a `UNIQUE` or `PRIMARY KEY` constraint to prevent duplicate
values from being inserted by accident, but this is not automatic.) Lastly,
the sequence is marked as “owned by” the column, so that it will be dropped if
the column or table is dropped.

### Note

Because `smallserial`, `serial` and `bigserial` are implemented using
sequences, there may be "holes" or gaps in the sequence of values which
appears in the column, even if no rows are ever deleted. A value allocated
from the sequence is still "used up" even if a row containing that value is
never successfully inserted into the table column. This may happen, for
example, if the inserting transaction rolls back. See `nextval()` in [Section
9.17](functions-sequence.html "9.17. Sequence Manipulation Functions") for
details.

To insert the next value of the sequence into the `serial` column, specify
that the `serial` column should be assigned its default value. This can be
done either by excluding the column from the list of columns in the `INSERT`
statement, or through the use of the `DEFAULT` key word.

The type names `serial` and `serial4` are equivalent: both create `integer`
columns. The type names `bigserial` and `serial8` work the same way, except
that they create a `bigint` column. `bigserial` should be used if you
anticipate the use of more than 231 identifiers over the lifetime of the
table. The type names `smallserial` and `serial2` also work the same way,
except that they create a `smallint` column.

The sequence created for a `serial` column is automatically dropped when the
owning column is dropped. You can drop the sequence without dropping the
column, but this will force removal of the column default expression.

* * *

[Prev](datatype.html "Chapter 8. Data Types")  | [Up](datatype.html "Chapter 8. Data Types") |  [Next](datatype-money.html "8.2. Monetary Types")  
---|---|---  
Chapter 8. Data Types  | [Home](index.html "PostgreSQL 16.9 Documentation") |  8.2. Monetary Types  
  
## Submit correction

If you see anything in the documentation that is not correct, does not match
your experience with the particular feature or requires further clarification,
please use [this form](/account/comments/new/16/datatype-numeric.html/) to
report a documentation issue.

[Privacy Policy](/about/privacypolicy) | [Code of Conduct](/about/policies/coc/) | [About PostgreSQL](/about/) | [Contact](/about/contact/)  

Copyright (C) 1996-2025 The PostgreSQL Global Development Group

