[ ![PostgreSQL Elephant Logo](/media/img/about/press/elephant.png) ](/)

  * [Home](/ "Home")
  * [About](/about/ "About")
  * [Download](/download/ "Download")
  * [Documentation](/docs/ "Documentation")
  * [Community](/community/ "Community")
  * [Developers](/developer/ "Developers")
  * [Support](/support/ "Support")
  * [Donate](/about/donate/ "Donate")
  * [Your account](/account/ "Your account")

__

May 8, 2025: [ PostgreSQL 17.5, 16.9, 15.13, 14.18, and 13.21 Released! ](/about/news/postgresql-175-169-1513-1418-and-1321-released-3072/) | [ PostgreSQL 18 Beta 1 Released! ](/about/news/postgresql-18-beta-1-released-3070/)

[Documentation](/docs/ "Documentation") -> [PostgreSQL
16](/docs/16/index.html)

Supported Versions: [Current](/docs/current/error-style-guide.html "PostgreSQL
17 - 56.3. Error Message Style Guide") ([17](/docs/17/error-style-guide.html
"PostgreSQL 17 - 56.3. Error Message Style Guide")) / [16](/docs/16/error-
style-guide.html "PostgreSQL 16 - 56.3. Error Message Style Guide") /
[15](/docs/15/error-style-guide.html "PostgreSQL 15 - 56.3. Error Message
Style Guide") / [14](/docs/14/error-style-guide.html "PostgreSQL 14 -
56.3. Error Message Style Guide") / [13](/docs/13/error-style-guide.html
"PostgreSQL 13 - 56.3. Error Message Style Guide")

Development Versions: [18](/docs/18/error-style-guide.html "PostgreSQL 18 -
56.3. Error Message Style Guide") / [devel](/docs/devel/error-style-guide.html
"PostgreSQL devel - 56.3. Error Message Style Guide")

Unsupported versions: [12](/docs/12/error-style-guide.html "PostgreSQL 12 -
56.3. Error Message Style Guide") / [11](/docs/11/error-style-guide.html
"PostgreSQL 11 - 56.3. Error Message Style Guide") / [10](/docs/10/error-
style-guide.html "PostgreSQL 10 - 56.3. Error Message Style Guide") /
[9.6](/docs/9.6/error-style-guide.html "PostgreSQL 9.6 - 56.3. Error Message
Style Guide") / [9.5](/docs/9.5/error-style-guide.html "PostgreSQL 9.5 -
56.3. Error Message Style Guide") / [9.4](/docs/9.4/error-style-guide.html
"PostgreSQL 9.4 - 56.3. Error Message Style Guide") / [9.3](/docs/9.3/error-
style-guide.html "PostgreSQL 9.3 - 56.3. Error Message Style Guide") /
[9.2](/docs/9.2/error-style-guide.html "PostgreSQL 9.2 - 56.3. Error Message
Style Guide") / [9.1](/docs/9.1/error-style-guide.html "PostgreSQL 9.1 -
56.3. Error Message Style Guide") / [9.0](/docs/9.0/error-style-guide.html
"PostgreSQL 9.0 - 56.3. Error Message Style Guide") / [8.4](/docs/8.4/error-
style-guide.html "PostgreSQL 8.4 - 56.3. Error Message Style Guide") /
[8.3](/docs/8.3/error-style-guide.html "PostgreSQL 8.3 - 56.3. Error Message
Style Guide") / [8.2](/docs/8.2/error-style-guide.html "PostgreSQL 8.2 -
56.3. Error Message Style Guide") / [8.1](/docs/8.1/error-style-guide.html
"PostgreSQL 8.1 - 56.3. Error Message Style Guide") / [8.0](/docs/8.0/error-
style-guide.html "PostgreSQL 8.0 - 56.3. Error Message Style Guide") /
[7.4](/docs/7.4/error-style-guide.html "PostgreSQL 7.4 - 56.3. Error Message
Style Guide")

__

56.3. Error Message Style Guide  
---  
[Prev](error-message-reporting.html "56.2. Reporting Errors Within the Server")  | [Up](source.html "Chapter 56. PostgreSQL Coding Conventions") | Chapter 56. PostgreSQL Coding Conventions | [Home](index.html "PostgreSQL 16.9 Documentation") |  [Next](source-conventions.html "56.4. Miscellaneous Coding Conventions")  
  
* * *

## 56.3. Error Message Style Guide #

This style guide is offered in the hope of maintaining a consistent, user-
friendly style throughout all the messages generated by PostgreSQL.

### What Goes Where #

The primary message should be short, factual, and avoid reference to
implementation details such as specific function names. “Short” means “should
fit on one line under normal conditions”. Use a detail message if needed to
keep the primary message short, or if you feel a need to mention
implementation details such as the particular system call that failed. Both
primary and detail messages should be factual. Use a hint message for
suggestions about what to do to fix the problem, especially if the suggestion
might not always be applicable.

For example, instead of:

    
    
    IpcMemoryCreate: shmget(key=%d, size=%u, 0%o) failed: %m
    (plus a long addendum that is basically a hint)
    

write:

    
    
    Primary:    could not create shared memory segment: %m
    Detail:     Failed syscall was shmget(key=%d, size=%u, 0%o).
    Hint:       the addendum
    

Rationale: keeping the primary message short helps keep it to the point, and
lets clients lay out screen space on the assumption that one line is enough
for error messages. Detail and hint messages can be relegated to a verbose
mode, or perhaps a pop-up error-details window. Also, details and hints would
normally be suppressed from the server log to save space. Reference to
implementation details is best avoided since users aren't expected to know the
details.

### Formatting #

Don't put any specific assumptions about formatting into the message texts.
Expect clients and the server log to wrap lines to fit their own needs. In
long messages, newline characters (\n) can be used to indicate suggested
paragraph breaks. Don't end a message with a newline. Don't use tabs or other
formatting characters. (In error context displays, newlines are automatically
added to separate levels of context such as function calls.)

Rationale: Messages are not necessarily displayed on terminal-type displays.
In GUI displays or browsers these formatting instructions are at best ignored.

### Quotation Marks #

English text should use double quotes when quoting is appropriate. Text in
other languages should consistently use one kind of quotes that is consistent
with publishing customs and computer output of other programs.

Rationale: The choice of double quotes over single quotes is somewhat
arbitrary, but tends to be the preferred use. Some have suggested choosing the
kind of quotes depending on the type of object according to SQL conventions
(namely, strings single quoted, identifiers double quoted). But this is a
language-internal technical issue that many users aren't even familiar with,
it won't scale to other kinds of quoted terms, it doesn't translate to other
languages, and it's pretty pointless, too.

### Use of Quotes #

Always use quotes to delimit file names, user-supplied identifiers, and other
variables that might contain words. Do not use them to mark up variables that
will not contain words (for example, operator names).

There are functions in the backend that will double-quote their own output as
needed (for example, `format_type_be()`). Do not put additional quotes around
the output of such functions.

Rationale: Objects can have names that create ambiguity when embedded in a
message. Be consistent about denoting where a plugged-in name starts and ends.
But don't clutter messages with unnecessary or duplicate quote marks.

### Grammar and Punctuation #

The rules are different for primary error messages and for detail/hint
messages:

Primary error messages: Do not capitalize the first letter. Do not end a
message with a period. Do not even think about ending a message with an
exclamation point.

Detail and hint messages: Use complete sentences, and end each with a period.
Capitalize the first word of sentences. Put two spaces after the period if
another sentence follows (for English text; might be inappropriate in other
languages).

Error context strings: Do not capitalize the first letter and do not end the
string with a period. Context strings should normally not be complete
sentences.

Rationale: Avoiding punctuation makes it easier for client applications to
embed the message into a variety of grammatical contexts. Often, primary
messages are not grammatically complete sentences anyway. (And if they're long
enough to be more than one sentence, they should be split into primary and
detail parts.) However, detail and hint messages are longer and might need to
include multiple sentences. For consistency, they should follow complete-
sentence style even when there's only one sentence.

### Upper Case vs. Lower Case #

Use lower case for message wording, including the first letter of a primary
error message. Use upper case for SQL commands and key words if they appear in
the message.

Rationale: It's easier to make everything look more consistent this way, since
some messages are complete sentences and some not.

### Avoid Passive Voice #

Use the active voice. Use complete sentences when there is an acting subject
(“A could not do B”). Use telegram style without subject if the subject would
be the program itself; do not use “I” for the program.

Rationale: The program is not human. Don't pretend otherwise.

### Present vs. Past Tense #

Use past tense if an attempt to do something failed, but could perhaps succeed
next time (perhaps after fixing some problem). Use present tense if the
failure is certainly permanent.

There is a nontrivial semantic difference between sentences of the form:

    
    
    could not open file "%s": %m
    

and:

    
    
    cannot open file "%s"
    

The first one means that the attempt to open the file failed. The message
should give a reason, such as “disk full” or “file doesn't exist”. The past
tense is appropriate because next time the disk might not be full anymore or
the file in question might exist.

The second form indicates that the functionality of opening the named file
does not exist at all in the program, or that it's conceptually impossible.
The present tense is appropriate because the condition will persist
indefinitely.

Rationale: Granted, the average user will not be able to draw great
conclusions merely from the tense of the message, but since the language
provides us with a grammar we should use it correctly.

### Type of the Object #

When citing the name of an object, state what kind of object it is.

Rationale: Otherwise no one will know what “foo.bar.baz” refers to.

### Brackets #

Square brackets are only to be used (1) in command synopses to denote optional
arguments, or (2) to denote an array subscript.

Rationale: Anything else does not correspond to widely-known customary usage
and will confuse people.

### Assembling Error Messages #

When a message includes text that is generated elsewhere, embed it in this
style:

    
    
    could not open file %s: %m
    

Rationale: It would be difficult to account for all possible error codes to
paste this into a single smooth sentence, so some sort of punctuation is
needed. Putting the embedded text in parentheses has also been suggested, but
it's unnatural if the embedded text is likely to be the most important part of
the message, as is often the case.

### Reasons for Errors #

Messages should always state the reason why an error occurred. For example:

    
    
    BAD:    could not open file %s
    BETTER: could not open file %s (I/O failure)
    

If no reason is known you better fix the code.

### Function Names #

Don't include the name of the reporting routine in the error text. We have
other mechanisms for finding that out when needed, and for most users it's not
helpful information. If the error text doesn't make as much sense without the
function name, reword it.

    
    
    BAD:    pg_strtoint32: error in "z": cannot parse "z"
    BETTER: invalid input syntax for type integer: "z"
    

Avoid mentioning called function names, either; instead say what the code was
trying to do:

    
    
    BAD:    open() failed: %m
    BETTER: could not open file %s: %m
    

If it really seems necessary, mention the system call in the detail message.
(In some cases, providing the actual values passed to the system call might be
appropriate information for the detail message.)

Rationale: Users don't know what all those functions do.

### Tricky Words to Avoid #

**Unable.  ** “Unable” is nearly the passive voice. Better use “cannot” or
“could not”, as appropriate.

**Bad.  ** Error messages like “bad result” are really hard to interpret
intelligently. It's better to write why the result is “bad”, e.g., “invalid
format”.

**Illegal.  ** “Illegal” stands for a violation of the law, the rest is
“invalid”. Better yet, say why it's invalid.

**Unknown.  ** Try to avoid “unknown”. Consider “error: unknown response”. If
you don't know what the response is, how do you know it's erroneous?
“Unrecognized” is often a better choice. Also, be sure to include the value
being complained of.

    
    
    BAD:    unknown node type
    BETTER: unrecognized node type: 42
    

**Find vs. Exists.  ** If the program uses a nontrivial algorithm to locate a
resource (e.g., a path search) and that algorithm fails, it is fair to say
that the program couldn't “find” the resource. If, on the other hand, the
expected location of the resource is known but the program cannot access it
there then say that the resource doesn't “exist”. Using “find” in this case
sounds weak and confuses the issue.

**May vs. Can vs. Might.  ** “May” suggests permission (e.g., "You may borrow
my rake."), and has little use in documentation or error messages. “Can”
suggests ability (e.g., "I can lift that log."), and “might” suggests
possibility (e.g., "It might rain today."). Using the proper word clarifies
meaning and assists translation.

**Contractions.  ** Avoid contractions, like “can't”; use “cannot” instead.

**Non-negative.  ** Avoid “non-negative” as it is ambiguous about whether it
accepts zero. It's better to use “greater than zero” or “greater than or equal
to zero”.

### Proper Spelling #

Spell out words in full. For instance, avoid:

  * spec

  * stats

  * parens

  * auth

  * xact

Rationale: This will improve consistency.

### Localization #

Keep in mind that error message texts need to be translated into other
languages. Follow the guidelines in [Section 57.2.2](nls-programmer.html#NLS-
GUIDELINES "57.2.2. Message-Writing Guidelines") to avoid making life
difficult for translators.

* * *

[Prev](error-message-reporting.html "56.2. Reporting Errors Within the Server")  | [Up](source.html "Chapter 56. PostgreSQL Coding Conventions") |  [Next](source-conventions.html "56.4. Miscellaneous Coding Conventions")  
---|---|---  
56.2. Reporting Errors Within the Server  | [Home](index.html "PostgreSQL 16.9 Documentation") |  56.4. Miscellaneous Coding Conventions  
  
## Submit correction

If you see anything in the documentation that is not correct, does not match
your experience with the particular feature or requires further clarification,
please use [this form](/account/comments/new/16/error-style-guide.html/) to
report a documentation issue.

[Privacy Policy](/about/privacypolicy) | [Code of Conduct](/about/policies/coc/) | [About PostgreSQL](/about/) | [Contact](/about/contact/)  

Copyright (C) 1996-2025 The PostgreSQL Global Development Group

