[ ![PostgreSQL Elephant Logo](/media/img/about/press/elephant.png) ](/)

  * [Home](/ "Home")
  * [About](/about/ "About")
  * [Download](/download/ "Download")
  * [Documentation](/docs/ "Documentation")
  * [Community](/community/ "Community")
  * [Developers](/developer/ "Developers")
  * [Support](/support/ "Support")
  * [Donate](/about/donate/ "Donate")
  * [Your account](/account/ "Your account")

__

May 8, 2025: [ PostgreSQL 17.5, 16.9, 15.13, 14.18, and 13.21 Released! ](/about/news/postgresql-175-169-1513-1418-and-1321-released-3072/) | [ PostgreSQL 18 Beta 1 Released! ](/about/news/postgresql-18-beta-1-released-3070/)

[Documentation](/docs/ "Documentation") -> [PostgreSQL
16](/docs/16/index.html)

Supported Versions: [Current](/docs/current/glossary.html "PostgreSQL 17 -
Appendix M. Glossary") ([17](/docs/17/glossary.html "PostgreSQL 17 -
Appendix M. Glossary")) / [16](/docs/16/glossary.html "PostgreSQL 16 -
Appendix M. Glossary") / [15](/docs/15/glossary.html "PostgreSQL 15 -
Appendix M. Glossary") / [14](/docs/14/glossary.html "PostgreSQL 14 -
Appendix M. Glossary") / [13](/docs/13/glossary.html "PostgreSQL 13 -
Appendix M. Glossary")

Development Versions: [18](/docs/18/glossary.html "PostgreSQL 18 -
Appendix M. Glossary") / [devel](/docs/devel/glossary.html "PostgreSQL devel -
Appendix M. Glossary")

__

Appendix M. Glossary  
---  
[Prev](acronyms.html "Appendix L. Acronyms")  | [Up](appendixes.html "Part VIII. Appendixes") | Part VIII. Appendixes | [Home](index.html "PostgreSQL 16.9 Documentation") |  [Next](color.html "Appendix N. Color Support")  
  
* * *

## Appendix M. Glossary

This is a list of terms and their meaning in the context of PostgreSQL and
relational database systems in general.

ACID

    

[](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-ATOMICITY)[Atomicity](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
ATOMICITY "Atomicity"), [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
CONSISTENCY)[Consistency](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-CONSISTENCY "Consistency"),
[](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-ISOLATION)[Isolation](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
ISOLATION "Isolation"), and [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
DURABILITY)[Durability](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-DURABILITY "Durability"). This
set of properties of database transactions is intended to guarantee validity
in concurrent operation and even in event of errors, power failures, etc.

Aggregate function (routine)

    

A [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-FUNCTION)[function](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
FUNCTION "Function \(routine\)") that combines (_aggregates_) multiple input
values, for example by counting, averaging or adding, yielding a single output
value.

For more information, see [Section 9.21](functions-aggregate.html
"9.21. Aggregate Functions").

See Also [Window function (routine)](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-WINDOW-FUNCTION).

Analytic function

    

See [Window function (routine)](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-WINDOW-FUNCTION).

Analyze (operation)

    

The act of collecting statistics from data in [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
TABLE)[tables](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-TABLE "Table") and other
[](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-RELATION)[relations](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-RELATION
"Relation") to help the [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-PLANNER)[query
planner](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-PLANNER "Query planner") to make decisions
about how to execute [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
QUERY)[queries](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-QUERY "Query").

(Don't confuse this term with the `ANALYZE` option to the [EXPLAIN](sql-
explain.html "EXPLAIN") command.)

For more information, see [ANALYZE](sql-analyze.html "ANALYZE").

Atomic

    

In reference to a [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
DATUM)[datum](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-DATUM "Datum"): the fact that its value
cannot be broken down into smaller components.

    

In reference to a [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-TRANSACTION)[database
transaction](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-TRANSACTION "Transaction"): see
[](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-ATOMICITY)[atomicity](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
ATOMICITY "Atomicity").

Atomicity

    

The property of a [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
TRANSACTION)[transaction](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-TRANSACTION "Transaction")
that either all its operations complete as a single unit or none do. In
addition, if a system failure occurs during the execution of a transaction, no
partial results are visible after recovery. This is one of the ACID
properties.

Attribute

    

An element with a certain name and data type found within a
[](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-TUPLE)[tuple](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-TUPLE "Tuple").

Autovacuum (process)

    

A set of background processes that routinely perform
[](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-VACUUM)[vacuum](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-VACUUM
"Vacuum") and [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
ANALYZE)[analyze](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-ANALYZE "Analyze \(operation\)")
operations. The [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-AUXILIARY-PROC)[auxiliary
process](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-AUXILIARY-PROC "Auxiliary process") that
coordinates the work and is always present (unless autovacuum is disabled) is
known as the _autovacuum launcher_ , and the processes that carry out the
tasks are known as the _autovacuum workers_.

For more information, see [Section 25.1.6](routine-vacuuming.html#AUTOVACUUM
"25.1.6. The Autovacuum Daemon").

Auxiliary process

    

A process within an [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
INSTANCE)[instance](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-INSTANCE "Instance") that is in
charge of some specific background task for the instance. The auxiliary
processes consist of the [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-AUTOVACUUM)[autovacuum
launcher](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-AUTOVACUUM "Autovacuum \(process\)") (but not
the autovacuum workers), the [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-BACKGROUND-
WRITER)[background writer](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-BACKGROUND-WRITER
"Background writer \(process\)"), the [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
CHECKPOINTER)[checkpointer](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-CHECKPOINTER "Checkpointer
\(process\)"), the [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
LOGGER)[logger](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-LOGGER "Logger \(process\)"), the
[](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-STARTUP-PROCESS)[startup
process](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-STARTUP-PROCESS "Startup process"), the
[](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-WAL-ARCHIVER)[WAL archiver](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
WAL-ARCHIVER "WAL archiver \(process\)"), the [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-WAL-
RECEIVER)[WAL receiver](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-WAL-RECEIVER "WAL receiver
\(process\)") (but not the [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-WAL-SENDER)[WAL
senders](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-WAL-SENDER "WAL sender \(process\)")), and the
[](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-WAL-WRITER)[WAL writer](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-WAL-
WRITER "WAL writer \(process\)").

Backend (process)

    

Process of an [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
INSTANCE)[instance](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-INSTANCE "Instance") which acts on
behalf of a [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-SESSION)[client
session](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-SESSION "Session") and handles its requests.

(Don't confuse this term with the similar terms [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
BACKGROUND-WORKER)[Background Worker](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-BACKGROUND-WORKER
"Background worker \(process\)") or [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-BACKGROUND-
WRITER)[Background Writer](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-BACKGROUND-WRITER
"Background writer \(process\)")).

Background worker (process)

    

Process within an [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
INSTANCE)[instance](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-INSTANCE "Instance"), which runs
system- or user-supplied code. Serves as infrastructure for several features
in PostgreSQL, such as [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-REPLICATION)[logical
replication](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-REPLICATION "Replication") and
[](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-PARALLEL-QUERY)[parallel
queries](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-PARALLEL-QUERY "Parallel query"). In addition,
[](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-EXTENSION)[Extensions](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
EXTENSION "Extension") can add custom background worker processes.

For more information, see [Chapter 48](bgworker.html "Chapter 48. Background
Worker Processes").

Background writer (process)

    

An [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-AUXILIARY-PROC)[auxiliary
process](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-AUXILIARY-PROC "Auxiliary process") that
writes dirty [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-DATA-PAGE)[data
pages](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-DATA-PAGE "Data page") from
[](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-SHARED-MEMORY)[shared
memory](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-SHARED-MEMORY "Shared memory") to the file
system. It wakes up periodically, but works only for a short period in order
to distribute its expensive I/O activity over time to avoid generating larger
I/O peaks which could block other processes.

For more information, see [Section 20.4.5](runtime-config-
resource.html#RUNTIME-CONFIG-RESOURCE-BACKGROUND-WRITER "20.4.5. Background
Writer").

Base Backup

    

A binary copy of all [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-DB-CLUSTER)[database
cluster](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-DB-CLUSTER "Database cluster") files. It is
generated by the tool [pg_basebackup](app-pgbasebackup.html "pg_basebackup").
In combination with WAL files it can be used as the starting point for
recovery, log shipping, or streaming replication.

Bloat

    

Space in data pages which does not contain current row versions, such as
unused (free) space or outdated row versions.

Bootstrap superuser

    

The first [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-USER)[user](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-USER
"User") initialized in a [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-DB-CLUSTER)[database
cluster](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-DB-CLUSTER "Database cluster").

This user owns all system catalog tables in each database. It is also the role
from which all granted permissions originate. Because of these things, this
role may not be dropped.

This role also behaves as a normal [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-DATABASE-
SUPERUSER)[database superuser](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-DATABASE-SUPERUSER
"Database superuser").

Buffer Access Strategy

    

Some operations will access a large number of [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-DATA-
PAGE)[pages](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-DATA-PAGE "Data page"). A _Buffer Access
Strategy_ helps to prevent these operations from evicting too many pages from
[](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-SHARED-MEMORY)[shared
buffers](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-SHARED-MEMORY "Shared memory").

A Buffer Access Strategy sets up references to a limited number of
[](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-SHARED-MEMORY)[shared
buffers](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-SHARED-MEMORY "Shared memory") and reuses them
circularly. When the operation requires a new page, a victim buffer is chosen
from the buffers in the strategy ring, which may require flushing the page's
dirty data and possibly also unflushed [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
WAL)[WAL](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-WAL "Write-ahead log") to permanent storage.

Buffer Access Strategies are used for various operations such as sequential
scans of large tables, `VACUUM`, `COPY`, `CREATE TABLE AS SELECT`, `ALTER
TABLE`, `CREATE DATABASE`, `CREATE INDEX`, and `CLUSTER`.

Cast

    

A conversion of a [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
DATUM)[datum](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-DATUM "Datum") from its current data type
to another data type.

For more information, see [CREATE CAST](sql-createcast.html "CREATE CAST").

Catalog

    

The SQL standard uses this term to indicate what is called a
[](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-DATABASE)[database](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-DATABASE
"Database") in PostgreSQL's terminology.

(Don't confuse this term with [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-SYSTEM-CATALOG)[system
catalog](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-SYSTEM-CATALOG "System catalog")).

For more information, see [Section 23.1](manage-ag-overview.html
"23.1. Overview").

Check constraint

    

A type of [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
CONSTRAINT)[constraint](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-CONSTRAINT "Constraint")
defined on a [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
RELATION)[relation](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-RELATION "Relation") which
restricts the values allowed in one or more [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
ATTRIBUTE)[attributes](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-ATTRIBUTE "Attribute"). The
check constraint can make reference to any attribute of the same row in the
relation, but cannot reference other rows of the same relation or other
relations.

For more information, see [Section 5.4](ddl-constraints.html
"5.4. Constraints").

Checkpoint

    

A point in the [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-WAL)[WAL](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-WAL
"Write-ahead log") sequence at which it is guaranteed that the heap and index
data files have been updated with all information from
[](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-SHARED-MEMORY)[shared
memory](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-SHARED-MEMORY "Shared memory") modified before
that checkpoint; a _checkpoint record_ is written and flushed to WAL to mark
that point.

A checkpoint is also the act of carrying out all the actions that are
necessary to reach a checkpoint as defined above. This process is initiated
when predefined conditions are met, such as a specified amount of time has
passed, or a certain volume of records has been written; or it can be invoked
by the user with the command `CHECKPOINT`.

For more information, see [Section 30.5](wal-configuration.html "30.5. WAL
Configuration").

Checkpointer (process)

    

An [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-AUXILIARY-PROC)[auxiliary
process](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-AUXILIARY-PROC "Auxiliary process") that is
responsible for executing [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
CHECKPOINT)[checkpoints](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-CHECKPOINT "Checkpoint").

Class (archaic)

    

See [Relation](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-RELATION).

Client (process)

    

Any process, possibly remote, that establishes a [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
SESSION)[session](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-SESSION "Session") by
[](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-CONNECTION)[connecting](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
CONNECTION "Connection") to an [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
INSTANCE)[instance](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-INSTANCE "Instance") to interact
with a [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-DATABASE)[database](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
DATABASE "Database").

Cluster owner

    

The operating system user that owns the [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-DATA-
DIRECTORY)[data directory](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-DATA-DIRECTORY "Data
directory") and under which the `postgres` process is run. It is required that
this user exist prior to creating a new [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-DB-
CLUSTER)[database cluster](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-DB-CLUSTER "Database
cluster").

On operating systems with a `root` user, said user is not allowed to be the
cluster owner.

Column

    

An [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-ATTRIBUTE)[attribute](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
ATTRIBUTE "Attribute") found in a [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
TABLE)[table](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-TABLE "Table") or
[](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-VIEW)[view](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-VIEW "View").

Commit

    

The act of finalizing a [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
TRANSACTION)[transaction](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-TRANSACTION "Transaction")
within the [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
DATABASE)[database](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-DATABASE "Database"), which makes
it visible to other transactions and assures its [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
DURABILITY)[durability](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-DURABILITY "Durability").

For more information, see [COMMIT](sql-commit.html "COMMIT").

Concurrency

    

The concept that multiple independent operations happen within the
[](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-DATABASE)[database](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-DATABASE
"Database") at the same time. In PostgreSQL, concurrency is controlled by the
[](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-MVCC)[multiversion concurrency
control](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-MVCC "Multi-version concurrency control
\(MVCC\)") mechanism.

Connection

    

An established line of communication between a client process and a
[](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-BACKEND)[backend](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-BACKEND
"Backend \(process\)") process, usually over a network, supporting a
[](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-SESSION)[session](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-SESSION
"Session"). This term is sometimes used as a synonym for session.

For more information, see [Section 20.3](runtime-config-connection.html
"20.3. Connections and Authentication").

Consistency

    

The property that the data in the [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
DATABASE)[database](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-DATABASE "Database") is always in
compliance with [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-CONSTRAINT)[integrity
constraints](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-CONSTRAINT "Constraint"). Transactions may
be allowed to violate some of the constraints transiently before it commits,
but if such violations are not resolved by the time it commits, such a
transaction is automatically [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-ROLLBACK)[rolled
back](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-ROLLBACK "Rollback"). This is one of the ACID
properties.

Constraint

    

A restriction on the values of data allowed within a
[](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-TABLE)[table](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-TABLE "Table"),
or in attributes of a [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
DOMAIN)[domain](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-DOMAIN "Domain").

For more information, see [Section 5.4](ddl-constraints.html
"5.4. Constraints").

Cumulative Statistics System

    

A system which, if enabled, accumulates statistical information about the
[](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-INSTANCE)[instance](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-INSTANCE
"Instance")'s activities.

For more information, see [Section 28.2](monitoring-stats.html "28.2. The
Cumulative Statistics System").

Data area

    

See [Data directory](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-DATA-DIRECTORY).

Database

    

A named collection of [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-SQL-OBJECT)[local SQL
objects](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-SQL-OBJECT "SQL object").

For more information, see [Section 23.1](manage-ag-overview.html
"23.1. Overview").

Database cluster

    

A collection of databases and global SQL objects, and their common static and
dynamic metadata. Sometimes referred to as a _cluster_. A database cluster is
created using the [initdb](app-initdb.html "initdb") program.

In PostgreSQL, the term _cluster_ is also sometimes used to refer to an
instance. (Don't confuse this term with the SQL command `CLUSTER`.)

See also [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-CLUSTER-OWNER)[cluster
owner](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-CLUSTER-OWNER "Cluster owner"), the operating-
system owner of a cluster, and [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-BOOTSTRAP-
SUPERUSER)[bootstrap superuser](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-BOOTSTRAP-SUPERUSER
"Bootstrap superuser"), the PostgreSQL owner of a cluster.

Database server

    

See [Instance](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-INSTANCE).

Database superuser

    

A role having _superuser status_ (see [Section 22.2](role-attributes.html
"22.2. Role Attributes")).

Frequently referred to as _superuser_.

Data directory

    

The base directory on the file system of a [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
SERVER)[server](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-SERVER "Server") that contains all data
files and subdirectories associated with a [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-DB-
CLUSTER)[database cluster](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-DB-CLUSTER "Database
cluster") (with the exception of [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
TABLESPACE)[tablespaces](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-TABLESPACE "Tablespace"), and
optionally [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-WAL)[WAL](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-WAL
"Write-ahead log")). The environment variable `PGDATA` is commonly used to
refer to the data directory.

A [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-DB-CLUSTER)[cluster](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-DB-
CLUSTER "Database cluster")'s storage space comprises the data directory plus
any additional tablespaces.

For more information, see [Section 73.1](storage-file-layout.html
"73.1. Database File Layout").

Data page

    

The basic structure used to store relation data. All pages are of the same
size. Data pages are typically stored on disk, each in a specific file, and
can be read to [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-SHARED-MEMORY)[shared
buffers](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-SHARED-MEMORY "Shared memory") where they can
be modified, becoming _dirty_. They become clean when written to disk. New
pages, which initially exist in memory only, are also dirty until written.

Datum

    

The internal representation of one value of an SQL data type.

Delete

    

An SQL command which removes [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
TUPLE)[rows](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-TUPLE "Tuple") from a given
[](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-TABLE)[table](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-TABLE "Table")
or [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-RELATION)[relation](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
RELATION "Relation").

For more information, see [DELETE](sql-delete.html "DELETE").

Domain

    

A user-defined data type that is based on another underlying data type. It
acts the same as the underlying type except for possibly restricting the set
of allowed values.

For more information, see [Section 8.18](domains.html "8.18. Domain Types").

Durability

    

The assurance that once a [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
TRANSACTION)[transaction](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-TRANSACTION "Transaction")
has been [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-COMMIT)[committed](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
COMMIT "Commit"), the changes remain even after a system failure or crash.
This is one of the ACID properties.

Epoch

    

See [Transaction ID](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-XID).

Extension

    

A software add-on package that can be installed on an
[](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-INSTANCE)[instance](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-INSTANCE
"Instance") to get extra features.

For more information, see [Section 38.17](extend-extensions.html
"38.17. Packaging Related Objects into an Extension").

File segment

    

A physical file which stores data for a given [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
RELATION)[relation](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-RELATION "Relation"). File segments
are limited in size by a configuration value (typically 1 gigabyte), so if a
relation exceeds that size, it is split into multiple segments.

For more information, see [Section 73.1](storage-file-layout.html
"73.1. Database File Layout").

(Don't confuse this term with the similar term [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-WAL-
FILE)[WAL segment](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-WAL-FILE "WAL file")).

Foreign data wrapper

    

A means of representing data that is not contained in the local
[](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-DATABASE)[database](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-DATABASE
"Database") so that it appears as if were in local [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
TABLE)[table(s)](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-TABLE "Table"). With a foreign data
wrapper it is possible to define a [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-FOREIGN-
SERVER)[foreign server](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-FOREIGN-SERVER "Foreign
server") and [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-FOREIGN-TABLE)[foreign
tables](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-FOREIGN-TABLE "Foreign table \(relation\)").

For more information, see [CREATE FOREIGN DATA WRAPPER](sql-
createforeigndatawrapper.html "CREATE FOREIGN DATA WRAPPER").

Foreign key

    

A type of [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
CONSTRAINT)[constraint](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-CONSTRAINT "Constraint")
defined on one or more [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
COLUMN)[columns](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-COLUMN "Column") in a
[](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-TABLE)[table](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-TABLE "Table")
which requires the value(s) in those [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
COLUMN)[columns](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-COLUMN "Column") to identify zero or
one [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-TUPLE)[row](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-TUPLE
"Tuple") in another (or, infrequently, the same) [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
TABLE)[table](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-TABLE "Table").

Foreign server

    

A named collection of [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-FOREIGN-TABLE)[foreign
tables](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-FOREIGN-TABLE "Foreign table \(relation\)")
which all use the same [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-FOREIGN-DATA-WRAPPER)[foreign
data wrapper](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-FOREIGN-DATA-WRAPPER "Foreign data
wrapper") and have other configuration values in common.

For more information, see [CREATE SERVER](sql-createserver.html "CREATE
SERVER").

Foreign table (relation)

    

A [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-RELATION)[relation](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
RELATION "Relation") which appears to have [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
TUPLE)[rows](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-TUPLE "Tuple") and
[](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-COLUMN)[columns](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-COLUMN
"Column") similar to a regular [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
TABLE)[table](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-TABLE "Table"), but will forward requests
for data through its [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-FOREIGN-DATA-WRAPPER)[foreign
data wrapper](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-FOREIGN-DATA-WRAPPER "Foreign data
wrapper"), which will return [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-RESULT-SET)[result
sets](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-RESULT-SET "Result set") structured according to
the definition of the [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-FOREIGN-TABLE)[foreign
table](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-FOREIGN-TABLE "Foreign table \(relation\)").

For more information, see [CREATE FOREIGN TABLE](sql-createforeigntable.html
"CREATE FOREIGN TABLE").

Fork

    

Each of the separate segmented file sets in which a relation is stored. The
_main fork_ is where the actual data resides. There also exist two secondary
forks for metadata: the [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-FSM)[free space
map](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-FSM "Free space map \(fork\)") and the
[](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-VM)[visibility map](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-VM
"Visibility map \(fork\)"). [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-UNLOGGED)[Unlogged
relations](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-UNLOGGED "Unlogged") also have an _init
fork_.

Free space map (fork)

    

A storage structure that keeps metadata about each data page of a table's main
fork. The free space map entry for each page stores the amount of free space
that's available for future tuples, and is structured to be efficiently
searched for available space for a new tuple of a given size.

For more information, see [Section 73.3](storage-fsm.html "73.3. Free Space
Map").

Function (routine)

    

A type of routine that receives zero or more arguments, returns zero or more
output values, and is constrained to run within one transaction. Functions are
invoked as part of a query, for example via `SELECT`. Certain functions can
return [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-RESULT-SET)[sets](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
RESULT-SET "Result set"); those are called _set-returning functions_.

Functions can also be used for [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
TRIGGER)[triggers](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-TRIGGER "Trigger") to invoke.

For more information, see [CREATE FUNCTION](sql-createfunction.html "CREATE
FUNCTION").

GMT

    

See [UTC](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-UTC).

Grant

    

An SQL command that is used to allow a [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
USER)[user](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-USER "User") or [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
ROLE)[role](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-ROLE "Role") to access specific objects
within the [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
DATABASE)[database](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-DATABASE "Database").

For more information, see [GRANT](sql-grant.html "GRANT").

Heap

    

Contains the values of [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
TUPLE)[row](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-TUPLE "Tuple") attributes (i.e., the data)
for a [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-RELATION)[relation](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
RELATION "Relation"). The heap is realized within one or more
[](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-FILE-SEGMENT)[file segments](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
FILE-SEGMENT "File segment") in the relation's [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
FORK)[main fork](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-FORK "Fork").

Host

    

A computer that communicates with other computers over a network. This is
sometimes used as a synonym for [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
SERVER)[server](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-SERVER "Server"). It is also used to
refer to a computer where [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-CLIENT)[client
processes](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-CLIENT "Client \(process\)") run.

Index (relation)

    

A [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-RELATION)[relation](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
RELATION "Relation") that contains data derived from a
[](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-TABLE)[table](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-TABLE "Table")
or [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-MATERIALIZED-VIEW)[materialized
view](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-MATERIALIZED-VIEW "Materialized view
\(relation\)"). Its internal structure supports fast retrieval of and access
to the original data.

For more information, see [CREATE INDEX](sql-createindex.html "CREATE INDEX").

Insert

    

An SQL command used to add new data into a [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
TABLE)[table](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-TABLE "Table").

For more information, see [INSERT](sql-insert.html "INSERT").

Instance

    

A group of [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-BACKEND)[backend](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
BACKEND "Backend \(process\)") and [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-AUXILIARY-
PROC)[auxiliary processes](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-AUXILIARY-PROC "Auxiliary
process") that communicate using a common shared memory area. One
[](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-POSTMASTER)[postmaster
process](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-POSTMASTER "Postmaster \(process\)") manages
the instance; one instance manages exactly one [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-DB-
CLUSTER)[database cluster](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-DB-CLUSTER "Database
cluster") with all its databases. Many instances can run on the same
[](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-SERVER)[server](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-SERVER
"Server") as long as their TCP ports do not conflict.

The instance handles all key features of a DBMS: read and write access to
files and shared memory, assurance of the ACID properties,
[](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-CONNECTION)[connections](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
CONNECTION "Connection") to [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-CLIENT)[client
processes](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-CLIENT "Client \(process\)"), privilege
verification, crash recovery, replication, etc.

Isolation

    

The property that the effects of a transaction are not visible to
[](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-CONCURRENCY)[concurrent
transactions](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-CONCURRENCY "Concurrency") before it
commits. This is one of the ACID properties.

For more information, see [Section 13.2](transaction-iso.html
"13.2. Transaction Isolation").

Join

    

An operation and SQL keyword used in [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
QUERY)[queries](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-QUERY "Query") for combining data from
multiple [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
RELATION)[relations](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-RELATION "Relation").

Key

    

A means of identifying a [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
TUPLE)[row](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-TUPLE "Tuple") within a
[](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-TABLE)[table](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-TABLE "Table")
or other [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-RELATION)[relation](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
RELATION "Relation") by values contained within one or more
[](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-ATTRIBUTE)[attributes](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
ATTRIBUTE "Attribute") in that relation.

Lock

    

A mechanism that allows a process to limit or prevent simultaneous access to a
resource.

Log file

    

Log files contain human-readable text lines about events. Examples include
login failures, long-running queries, etc.

For more information, see [Section 25.3](logfile-maintenance.html "25.3. Log
File Maintenance").

Logged

    

A [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-TABLE)[table](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-TABLE
"Table") is considered [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
LOGGED)[logged](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-LOGGED "Logged") if changes to it are
sent to the [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-WAL)[WAL](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-WAL
"Write-ahead log"). By default, all regular tables are logged. A table can be
specified as [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
UNLOGGED)[unlogged](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-UNLOGGED "Unlogged") either at
creation time or via the `ALTER TABLE` command.

Logger (process)

    

An [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-AUXILIARY-PROC)[auxiliary
process](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-AUXILIARY-PROC "Auxiliary process") which, if
enabled, writes information about database events into the current
[](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-LOG-FILE)[log file](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-LOG-FILE
"Log file"). When reaching certain time- or volume-dependent criteria, a new
log file is created. Also called _syslogger_.

For more information, see [Section 20.8](runtime-config-logging.html
"20.8. Error Reporting and Logging").

Log record

    

Archaic term for a [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-WAL-RECORD)[WAL
record](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-WAL-RECORD "WAL record").

Log sequence number (LSN)

    

Byte offset into the [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
WAL)[WAL](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-WAL "Write-ahead log"), increasing
monotonically with each new [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-WAL-RECORD)[WAL
record](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-WAL-RECORD "WAL record").

For more information, see [`pg_lsn`](datatype-pg-lsn.html "8.20. pg_lsn Type")
and [Section 30.6](wal-internals.html "30.6. WAL Internals").

LSN

    

See [Log sequence number](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-LOG-SEQUENCE-NUMBER).

Master (server)

    

See [Primary (server)](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-PRIMARY-SERVER).

Materialized

    

The property that some information has been pre-computed and stored for later
use, rather than computing it on-the-fly.

This term is used in [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-MATERIALIZED-VIEW)[materialized
view](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-MATERIALIZED-VIEW "Materialized view
\(relation\)"), to mean that the data derived from the view's query is stored
on disk separately from the sources of that data.

This term is also used to refer to some multi-step queries to mean that the
data resulting from executing a given step is stored in memory (with the
possibility of spilling to disk), so that it can be read multiple times by
another step.

Materialized view (relation)

    

A [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-RELATION)[relation](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
RELATION "Relation") that is defined by a `SELECT` statement (just like a
[](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-VIEW)[view](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-VIEW "View")),
but stores data in the same way that a [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
TABLE)[table](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-TABLE "Table") does. It cannot be
modified via `INSERT`, `UPDATE`, `DELETE`, or `MERGE` operations.

For more information, see [CREATE MATERIALIZED VIEW](sql-
creatematerializedview.html "CREATE MATERIALIZED VIEW").

Merge

    

An SQL command used to conditionally add, modify, or remove
[](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-TUPLE)[rows](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-TUPLE "Tuple")
in a given [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-TABLE)[table](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
TABLE "Table"), using data from a source [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
RELATION)[relation](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-RELATION "Relation").

For more information, see [MERGE](sql-merge.html "MERGE").

Multi-version concurrency control (MVCC)

    

A mechanism designed to allow several [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
TRANSACTION)[transactions](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-TRANSACTION "Transaction")
to be reading and writing the same rows without one process causing other
processes to stall. In PostgreSQL, MVCC is implemented by creating copies
(_versions_) of [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
TUPLE)[tuples](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-TUPLE "Tuple") as they are modified;
after transactions that can see the old versions terminate, those old versions
need to be removed.

Null

    

A concept of non-existence that is a central tenet of relational database
theory. It represents the absence of a definite value.

Optimizer

    

See [Query planner](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-PLANNER).

Parallel query

    

The ability to handle parts of executing a [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
QUERY)[query](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-QUERY "Query") to take advantage of
parallel processes on servers with multiple CPUs.

Partition

    

One of several disjoint (not overlapping) subsets of a larger set.

    

In reference to a [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-PARTITIONED-TABLE)[partitioned
table](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-PARTITIONED-TABLE "Partitioned table
\(relation\)"): One of the tables that each contain part of the data of the
partitioned table, which is said to be the _parent_. The partition is itself a
table, so it can also be queried directly; at the same time, a partition can
sometimes be a partitioned table, allowing hierarchies to be created.

    

In reference to a [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-WINDOW-FUNCTION)[window
function](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-WINDOW-FUNCTION "Window function
\(routine\)") in a [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
QUERY)[query](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-QUERY "Query"), a partition is a user-
defined criterion that identifies which neighboring [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
TUPLE)[rows](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-TUPLE "Tuple") of the
[](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-RESULT-SET)[query's result
set](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-RESULT-SET "Result set") can be considered by the
function.

Partitioned table (relation)

    

A [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-RELATION)[relation](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
RELATION "Relation") that is in semantic terms the same as a
[](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-TABLE)[table](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-TABLE "Table"),
but whose storage is distributed across several [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
PARTITION)[partitions](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-PARTITION "Partition").

Postmaster (process)

    

The very first process of an [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
INSTANCE)[instance](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-INSTANCE "Instance"). It starts and
manages the [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-AUXILIARY-PROC)[auxiliary
processes](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-AUXILIARY-PROC "Auxiliary process") and
creates [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-BACKEND)[backend
processes](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-BACKEND "Backend \(process\)") on demand.

For more information, see [Section 19.3](server-start.html "19.3. Starting the
Database Server").

Primary key

    

A special case of a [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-UNIQUE-CONSTRAINT)[unique
constraint](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-UNIQUE-CONSTRAINT "Unique constraint")
defined on a [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-TABLE)[table](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
TABLE "Table") or other [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
RELATION)[relation](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-RELATION "Relation") that also
guarantees that all of the [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
ATTRIBUTE)[attributes](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-ATTRIBUTE "Attribute") within
the [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-PRIMARY-KEY)[primary
key](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-PRIMARY-KEY "Primary key") do not have
[](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-NULL)[null](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-NULL "Null")
values. As the name implies, there can be only one primary key per table,
though it is possible to have multiple unique constraints that also have no
null-capable attributes.

Primary (server)

    

When two or more [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
DATABASE)[databases](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-DATABASE "Database") are linked
via [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
REPLICATION)[replication](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-REPLICATION "Replication"),
the [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-SERVER)[server](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-SERVER
"Server") that is considered the authoritative source of information is called
the _primary_ , also known as a _master_.

Procedure (routine)

    

A type of routine. Their distinctive qualities are that they do not return
values, and that they are allowed to make transactional statements such as
`COMMIT` and `ROLLBACK`. They are invoked via the `CALL` command.

For more information, see [CREATE PROCEDURE](sql-createprocedure.html "CREATE
PROCEDURE").

Query

    

A request sent by a client to a [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
BACKEND)[backend](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-BACKEND "Backend \(process\)"),
usually to return results or to modify data on the database.

Query planner

    

The part of PostgreSQL that is devoted to determining (_planning_) the most
efficient way to execute [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
QUERY)[queries](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-QUERY "Query"). Also known as _query
optimizer_ , _optimizer_ , or simply _planner_.

Record

    

See [Tuple](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-TUPLE).

Recycling

    

See [WAL file](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-WAL-FILE).

Referential integrity

    

A means of restricting data in one [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
RELATION)[relation](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-RELATION "Relation") by a
[](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-FOREIGN-KEY)[foreign key](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
FOREIGN-KEY "Foreign key") so that it must have matching data in another
[](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-RELATION)[relation](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-RELATION
"Relation").

Relation

    

The generic term for all objects in a [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
DATABASE)[database](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-DATABASE "Database") that have a
name and a list of [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
ATTRIBUTE)[attributes](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-ATTRIBUTE "Attribute") defined
in a specific order. [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
TABLE)[Tables](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-TABLE "Table"),
[](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-SEQUENCE)[sequences](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-SEQUENCE
"Sequence \(relation\)"), [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
VIEW)[views](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-VIEW "View"), [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
FOREIGN-TABLE)[foreign tables](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-FOREIGN-TABLE "Foreign
table \(relation\)"), [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-MATERIALIZED-
VIEW)[materialized views](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-MATERIALIZED-VIEW
"Materialized view \(relation\)"), composite types, and
[](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-INDEX)[indexes](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-INDEX "Index
\(relation\)") are all relations.

More generically, a relation is a set of tuples; for example, the result of a
query is also a relation.

In PostgreSQL, _Class_ is an archaic synonym for _relation_.

Replica (server)

    

A [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-DATABASE)[database](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
DATABASE "Database") that is paired with a [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-PRIMARY-
SERVER)[primary](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-PRIMARY-SERVER "Primary \(server\)")
database and is maintaining a copy of some or all of the primary database's
data. The foremost reasons for doing this are to allow for greater access to
that data, and to maintain availability of the data in the event that the
[](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-PRIMARY-SERVER)[primary](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
PRIMARY-SERVER "Primary \(server\)") becomes unavailable.

Replication

    

The act of reproducing data on one [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
SERVER)[server](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-SERVER "Server") onto another server
called a [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-REPLICA)[replica](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
REPLICA "Replica \(server\)"). This can take the form of _physical
replication_ , where all file changes from one server are copied verbatim, or
_logical replication_ where a defined subset of data changes are conveyed
using a higher-level representation.

Restartpoint

    

A variant of a [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
CHECKPOINT)[checkpoint](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-CHECKPOINT "Checkpoint")
performed on a [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
REPLICA)[replica](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-REPLICA "Replica \(server\)").

For more information, see [Section 30.5](wal-configuration.html "30.5. WAL
Configuration").

Result set

    

A [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-RELATION)[relation](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
RELATION "Relation") transmitted from a [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
BACKEND)[backend process](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-BACKEND "Backend
\(process\)") to a [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
CLIENT)[client](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-CLIENT "Client \(process\)") upon the
completion of an SQL command, usually a `SELECT` but it can be an `INSERT`,
`UPDATE`, or `DELETE` command if the `RETURNING` clause is specified.

The fact that a result set is a relation means that a query can be used in the
definition of another query, becoming a _subquery_.

    
Revoke

    

A command to prevent access to a named set of [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
DATABASE)[database](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-DATABASE "Database") objects for a
named list of [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-ROLE)[roles](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
ROLE "Role").

For more information, see [REVOKE](sql-revoke.html "REVOKE").

Role

    

A collection of access privileges to the [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
DATABASE)[instance](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-DATABASE "Database"). Roles are
themselves a privilege that can be granted to other roles. This is often done
for convenience or to ensure completeness when multiple
[](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-USER)[users](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-USER "User")
need the same privileges.

For more information, see [CREATE ROLE](sql-createrole.html "CREATE ROLE").

Rollback

    

A command to undo all of the operations performed since the beginning of a
[](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-TRANSACTION)[transaction](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
TRANSACTION "Transaction").

For more information, see [ROLLBACK](sql-rollback.html "ROLLBACK").

Routine

    

A defined set of instructions stored in the database system that can be
invoked for execution. A routine can be written in a variety of programming
languages. Routines can be [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
FUNCTION)[functions](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-FUNCTION "Function \(routine\)")
(including set-returning functions and [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
TRIGGER)[trigger functions](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-TRIGGER "Trigger")),
[](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-AGGREGATE)[aggregate
functions](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-AGGREGATE "Aggregate function \(routine\)"),
and [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-PROCEDURE)[procedures](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
PROCEDURE "Procedure \(routine\)").

Many routines are already defined within PostgreSQL itself, but user-defined
ones can also be added.

Row

    

See [Tuple](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-TUPLE).

Savepoint

    

A special mark in the sequence of steps in a [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
TRANSACTION)[transaction](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-TRANSACTION "Transaction").
Data modifications after this point in time may be reverted to the time of the
savepoint.

For more information, see [SAVEPOINT](sql-savepoint.html "SAVEPOINT").

Schema

    

A schema is a namespace for [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-SQL-OBJECT)[SQL
objects](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-SQL-OBJECT "SQL object"), which all reside in
the same [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-DATABASE)[database](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
DATABASE "Database"). Each SQL object must reside in exactly one schema.

All system-defined SQL objects reside in schema `pg_catalog`.

    

More generically, the term _schema_ is used to mean all data descriptions
([](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-TABLE)[table](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-TABLE "Table")
definitions, [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
CONSTRAINT)[constraints](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-CONSTRAINT "Constraint"),
comments, etc.) for a given [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
DATABASE)[database](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-DATABASE "Database") or subset
thereof.

For more information, see [Section 5.9](ddl-schemas.html "5.9. Schemas").

Segment

    

See [File segment](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-FILE-SEGMENT).

Select

    

The SQL command used to request data from a [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
DATABASE)[database](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-DATABASE "Database"). Normally,
`SELECT` commands are not expected to modify the [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
DATABASE)[database](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-DATABASE "Database") in any way,
but it is possible that [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
FUNCTION)[functions](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-FUNCTION "Function \(routine\)")
invoked within the query could have side effects that do modify data.

For more information, see [SELECT](sql-select.html "SELECT").

Sequence (relation)

    

A type of relation that is used to generate values. Typically the generated
values are sequential non-repeating numbers. They are commonly used to
generate surrogate [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-PRIMARY-KEY)[primary
key](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-PRIMARY-KEY "Primary key") values.

Server

    

A computer on which PostgreSQL [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
INSTANCE)[instances](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-INSTANCE "Instance") run. The term
_server_ denotes real hardware, a container, or a _virtual machine_.

This term is sometimes used to refer to an instance or to a host.

Session

    

A state that allows a client and a backend to interact, communicating over a
[](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-CONNECTION)[connection](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
CONNECTION "Connection").

Shared memory

    

RAM which is used by the processes common to an [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
INSTANCE)[instance](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-INSTANCE "Instance"). It mirrors
parts of [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-DATABASE)[database](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
DATABASE "Database") files, provides a transient area for
[](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-WAL-RECORD)[WAL records](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-WAL-
RECORD "WAL record"), and stores additional common information. Note that
shared memory belongs to the complete instance, not to a single database.

The largest part of shared memory is known as _shared buffers_ and is used to
mirror part of data files, organized into pages. When a page is modified, it
is called a dirty page until it is written back to the file system.

For more information, see [Section 20.4.1](runtime-config-
resource.html#RUNTIME-CONFIG-RESOURCE-MEMORY "20.4.1. Memory").

SQL object

    

Any object that can be created with a `CREATE` command. Most objects are
specific to one database, and are commonly known as _local objects_.

Most local objects reside in a specific [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
SCHEMA)[schema](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-SCHEMA "Schema") in their containing
database, such as [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
RELATION)[relations](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-RELATION "Relation") (all types),
[](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-FUNCTION)[routines](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-FUNCTION
"Function \(routine\)") (all types), data types, etc. The names of such
objects of the same type in the same schema are enforced to be unique.

There also exist local objects that do not reside in schemas; some examples
are [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-EXTENSION)[extensions](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
EXTENSION "Extension"), [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-CAST)[data type
casts](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-CAST "Cast"), and [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
FOREIGN-DATA-WRAPPER)[foreign data wrappers](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-FOREIGN-
DATA-WRAPPER "Foreign data wrapper"). The names of such objects of the same
type are enforced to be unique within the database.

Other object types, such as [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
ROLE)[roles](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-ROLE "Role"), [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
TABLESPACE)[tablespaces](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-TABLESPACE "Tablespace"),
replication origins, subscriptions for logical replication, and databases
themselves are not local SQL objects since they exist entirely outside of any
specific database; they are called _global objects_. The names of such objects
are enforced to be unique within the whole database cluster.

For more information, see [Section 23.1](manage-ag-overview.html
"23.1. Overview").

SQL standard

    

A series of documents that define the SQL language.

Standby (server)

    

See [Replica (server)](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-REPLICA).

Startup process

    

An [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-AUXILIARY-PROC)[auxiliary
process](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-AUXILIARY-PROC "Auxiliary process") that
replays WAL during crash recovery and in a [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
REPLICATION)[physical replica](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-REPLICATION
"Replication").

(The name is historical: the startup process was named before replication was
implemented; the name refers to its task as it relates to the server startup
following a crash.)

Superuser

    

As used in this documentation, it is a synonym for [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
DATABASE-SUPERUSER)[database superuser](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-DATABASE-
SUPERUSER "Database superuser").

System catalog

    

A collection of [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
TABLE)[tables](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-TABLE "Table") which describe the
structure of all [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-SQL-OBJECT)[SQL
objects](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-SQL-OBJECT "SQL object") of the instance. The
system catalog resides in the schema `pg_catalog`. These tables contain data
in internal representation and are not typically considered useful for user
examination; a number of user-friendlier [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
VIEW)[views](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-VIEW "View"), also in schema `pg_catalog`,
offer more convenient access to some of that information, while additional
tables and views exist in schema `information_schema` (see [Chapter
37](information-schema.html "Chapter 37. The Information Schema")) that expose
some of the same and additional information as mandated by the
[](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-SQL-STANDARD)[SQL standard](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
SQL-STANDARD "SQL standard").

For more information, see [Section 5.9](ddl-schemas.html "5.9. Schemas").

Table

    

A collection of [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
TUPLE)[tuples](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-TUPLE "Tuple") having a common data
structure (the same number of [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
ATTRIBUTE)[attributes](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-ATTRIBUTE "Attribute"), in the
same order, having the same name and type per position). A table is the most
common form of [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
RELATION)[relation](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-RELATION "Relation") in PostgreSQL.

For more information, see [CREATE TABLE](sql-createtable.html "CREATE TABLE").

Tablespace

    

A named location on the server file system. All [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-SQL-
OBJECT)[SQL objects](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-SQL-OBJECT "SQL object") which
require storage beyond their definition in the [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
SYSTEM-CATALOG)[system catalog](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-SYSTEM-CATALOG "System
catalog") must belong to a single tablespace. Initially, a database cluster
contains a single usable tablespace which is used as the default for all SQL
objects, called `pg_default`.

For more information, see [Section 23.6](manage-ag-tablespaces.html
"23.6. Tablespaces").

Temporary table

    

[](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-TABLE)[Tables](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-TABLE "Table")
that exist either for the lifetime of a [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
SESSION)[session](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-SESSION "Session") or a
[](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-TRANSACTION)[transaction](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
TRANSACTION "Transaction"), as specified at the time of creation. The data in
them is not visible to other sessions, and is not [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
LOGGED)[logged](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-LOGGED "Logged"). Temporary tables are
often used to store intermediate data for a multi-step operation.

For more information, see [CREATE TABLE](sql-createtable.html "CREATE TABLE").

TOAST

    

A mechanism by which large attributes of table rows are split and stored in a
secondary table, called the _TOAST table_. Each relation with large attributes
has its own TOAST table.

For more information, see [Section 73.2](storage-toast.html "73.2. TOAST").

Transaction

    

A combination of commands that must act as a single [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
ATOMIC)[atomic](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-ATOMIC "Atomic") command: they all
succeed or all fail as a single unit, and their effects are not visible to
other [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-SESSION)[sessions](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
SESSION "Session") until the transaction is complete, and possibly even later,
depending on the isolation level.

For more information, see [Section 13.2](transaction-iso.html
"13.2. Transaction Isolation").

Transaction ID

    

The numerical, unique, sequentially-assigned identifier that each transaction
receives when it first causes a database modification. Frequently abbreviated
as _xid_. When stored on disk, xids are only 32-bits wide, so only
approximately four billion write transaction IDs can be generated; to permit
the system to run for longer than that, _epochs_ are used, also 32 bits wide.
When the counter reaches the maximum xid value, it starts over at `3` (values
under that are reserved) and the epoch value is incremented by one. In some
contexts, the epoch and xid values are considered together as a single 64-bit
value; see [Section 74.1](transaction-id.html "74.1. Transactions and
Identifiers") for more details.

For more information, see [Section 8.19](datatype-oid.html "8.19. Object
Identifier Types").

Transactions per second (TPS)

    

Average number of transactions that are executed per second, totaled across
all sessions active for a measured run. This is used as a measure of the
performance characteristics of an instance.

Trigger

    

A [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-FUNCTION)[function](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
FUNCTION "Function \(routine\)") which can be defined to execute whenever a
certain operation (`INSERT`, `UPDATE`, `DELETE`, `TRUNCATE`) is applied to a
[](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-RELATION)[relation](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-RELATION
"Relation"). A trigger executes within the same [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
TRANSACTION)[transaction](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-TRANSACTION "Transaction") as
the statement which invoked it, and if the function fails, then the invoking
statement also fails.

For more information, see [CREATE TRIGGER](sql-createtrigger.html "CREATE
TRIGGER").

Tuple

    

A collection of [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
ATTRIBUTE)[attributes](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-ATTRIBUTE "Attribute") in a
fixed order. That order may be defined by the [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
TABLE)[table](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-TABLE "Table") (or other
[](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-RELATION)[relation](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-RELATION
"Relation")) where the tuple is contained, in which case the tuple is often
called a _row_. It may also be defined by the structure of a result set, in
which case it is sometimes called a _record_.

Unique constraint

    

A type of [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
CONSTRAINT)[constraint](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-CONSTRAINT "Constraint")
defined on a [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
RELATION)[relation](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-RELATION "Relation") which
restricts the values allowed in one or a combination of columns so that each
value or combination of values can only appear once in the relation — that is,
no other row in the relation contains values that are equal to those.

Because [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-NULL)[null values](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
NULL "Null") are not considered equal to each other, multiple rows with null
values are allowed to exist without violating the unique constraint.

Unlogged

    

The property of certain [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
RELATION)[relations](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-RELATION "Relation") that the
changes to them are not reflected in the [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
WAL)[WAL](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-WAL "Write-ahead log"). This disables
replication and crash recovery for these relations.

The primary use of unlogged tables is for storing transient work data that
must be shared across processes.

[](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-TEMPORARY-TABLE)[Temporary
tables](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-TEMPORARY-TABLE "Temporary table") are always
unlogged.

Update

    

An SQL command used to modify [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
TUPLE)[rows](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-TUPLE "Tuple") that may already exist in a
specified [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-TABLE)[table](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-TABLE
"Table"). It cannot create or remove rows.

For more information, see [UPDATE](sql-update.html "UPDATE").

User

    

A [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-ROLE)[role](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-ROLE "Role")
that has the _login privilege_ (see [Section 22.2](role-attributes.html
"22.2. Role Attributes")).

User mapping

    

The translation of login credentials in the local [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
DATABASE)[database](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-DATABASE "Database") to credentials
in a remote data system defined by a [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-FOREIGN-DATA-
WRAPPER)[foreign data wrapper](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-FOREIGN-DATA-WRAPPER
"Foreign data wrapper").

For more information, see [CREATE USER MAPPING](sql-createusermapping.html
"CREATE USER MAPPING").

UTC

    

Universal Coordinated Time, the primary global time reference, approximately
the time prevailing at the zero meridian of longitude. Often but inaccurately
referred to as GMT (Greenwich Mean Time).

Vacuum

    

The process of removing outdated [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-TUPLE)[tuple
versions](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-TUPLE "Tuple") from tables or materialized
views, and other closely related processing required by PostgreSQL's
implementation of [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
MVCC)[MVCC](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-MVCC "Multi-version concurrency control
\(MVCC\)"). This can be initiated through the use of the `VACUUM` command, but
can also be handled automatically via [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
AUTOVACUUM)[autovacuum](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-AUTOVACUUM "Autovacuum
\(process\)") processes.

For more information, see [Section 25.1](routine-vacuuming.html "25.1. Routine
Vacuuming") .

View

    

A [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-RELATION)[relation](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
RELATION "Relation") that is defined by a `SELECT` statement, but has no
storage of its own. Any time a query references a view, the definition of the
view is substituted into the query as if the user had typed it as a subquery
instead of the name of the view.

For more information, see [CREATE VIEW](sql-createview.html "CREATE VIEW").

Visibility map (fork)

    

A storage structure that keeps metadata about each data page of a table's main
fork. The visibility map entry for each page stores two bits: the first one
(`all-visible`) indicates that all tuples in the page are visible to all
transactions. The second one (`all-frozen`) indicates that all tuples in the
page are marked frozen.

WAL

    

See [Write-ahead log](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-WAL).

WAL archiver (process)

    

An [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-AUXILIARY-PROC)[auxiliary
process](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-AUXILIARY-PROC "Auxiliary process") which, if
enabled, saves copies of [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-WAL-FILE)[WAL
files](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-WAL-FILE "WAL file") for the purpose of creating
backups or keeping [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
REPLICA)[replicas](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-REPLICA "Replica \(server\)")
current.

For more information, see [Section 26.3](continuous-archiving.html
"26.3. Continuous Archiving and Point-in-Time Recovery \(PITR\)").

WAL file

    

Also known as _WAL segment_ or _WAL segment file_. Each of the sequentially-
numbered files that provide storage space for [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
WAL)[WAL](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-WAL "Write-ahead log"). The files are all of
the same predefined size and are written in sequential order, interspersing
changes as they occur in multiple simultaneous sessions. If the system
crashes, the files are read in order, and each of the changes is replayed to
restore the system to the state it was in before the crash.

Each WAL file can be released after a [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
CHECKPOINT)[checkpoint](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-CHECKPOINT "Checkpoint") writes
all the changes in it to the corresponding data files. Releasing the file can
be done either by deleting it, or by changing its name so that it will be used
in the future, which is called _recycling_.

For more information, see [Section 30.6](wal-internals.html "30.6. WAL
Internals").

WAL record

    

A low-level description of an individual data change. It contains sufficient
information for the data change to be re-executed (_replayed_) in case a
system failure causes the change to be lost. WAL records use a non-printable
binary format.

For more information, see [Section 30.6](wal-internals.html "30.6. WAL
Internals").

WAL receiver (process)

    

An [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-AUXILIARY-PROC)[auxiliary
process](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-AUXILIARY-PROC "Auxiliary process") that runs
on a [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-REPLICA)[replica](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
REPLICA "Replica \(server\)") to receive WAL from the
[](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-PRIMARY-SERVER)[primary
server](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-PRIMARY-SERVER "Primary \(server\)") for replay
by the [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-STARTUP-PROCESS)[startup
process](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-STARTUP-PROCESS "Startup process").

For more information, see [Section 27.2](warm-standby.html "27.2. Log-Shipping
Standby Servers").

WAL segment

    

See [WAL file](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-WAL-FILE).

WAL sender (process)

    

A special [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-BACKEND)[backend
process](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-BACKEND "Backend \(process\)") that streams
WAL over a network. The receiving end can be a [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-WAL-
RECEIVER)[WAL receiver](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-WAL-RECEIVER "WAL receiver
\(process\)") in a [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
REPLICA)[replica](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-REPLICA "Replica \(server\)"),
[pg_receivewal](app-pgreceivewal.html "pg_receivewal"), or any other client
program that speaks the replication protocol.

WAL writer (process)

    

An [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-AUXILIARY-PROC)[auxiliary
process](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-AUXILIARY-PROC "Auxiliary process") that
writes [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-WAL-RECORD)[WAL
records](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-WAL-RECORD "WAL record") from
[](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-SHARED-MEMORY)[shared
memory](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-SHARED-MEMORY "Shared memory") to
[](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-WAL-FILE)[WAL files](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-WAL-FILE
"WAL file").

For more information, see [Section 20.5](runtime-config-wal.html "20.5. Write
Ahead Log").

Window function (routine)

    

A type of [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
FUNCTION)[function](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-FUNCTION "Function \(routine\)")
used in a [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-QUERY)[query](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-QUERY
"Query") that applies to a [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
PARTITION)[partition](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-PARTITION "Partition") of the
query's [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-RESULT-SET)[result
set](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-RESULT-SET "Result set"); the function's result is
based on values found in [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
TUPLE)[rows](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-TUPLE "Tuple") of the same partition or
frame.

All [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-AGGREGATE)[aggregate
functions](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-AGGREGATE "Aggregate function \(routine\)")
can be used as window functions, but window functions can also be used to, for
example, give ranks to each of the rows in the partition. Also known as
_analytic functions_.

For more information, see [Section 3.5](tutorial-window.html "3.5. Window
Functions").

Write-ahead log

    

The journal that keeps track of the changes in the [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
DB-CLUSTER)[database cluster](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-DB-CLUSTER "Database
cluster") as user- and system-invoked operations take place. It comprises many
individual [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-WAL-RECORD)[WAL
records](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-WAL-RECORD "WAL record") written sequentially
to [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-WAL-FILE)[WAL files](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-WAL-
FILE "WAL file").

* * *

[Prev](acronyms.html "Appendix L. Acronyms")  | [Up](appendixes.html "Part VIII. Appendixes") |  [Next](color.html "Appendix N. Color Support")  
---|---|---  
Appendix L. Acronyms  | [Home](index.html "PostgreSQL 16.9 Documentation") |  Appendix N. Color Support  
  
## Submit correction

If you see anything in the documentation that is not correct, does not match
your experience with the particular feature or requires further clarification,
please use [this form](/account/comments/new/16/glossary.html/) to report a
documentation issue.

[Privacy Policy](/about/privacypolicy) | [Code of Conduct](/about/policies/coc/) | [About PostgreSQL](/about/) | [Contact](/about/contact/)  

Copyright (C) 1996-2025 The PostgreSQL Global Development Group

