[ ![PostgreSQL Elephant Logo](/media/img/about/press/elephant.png) ](/)

  * [Home](/ "Home")
  * [About](/about/ "About")
  * [Download](/download/ "Download")
  * [Documentation](/docs/ "Documentation")
  * [Community](/community/ "Community")
  * [Developers](/developer/ "Developers")
  * [Support](/support/ "Support")
  * [Donate](/about/donate/ "Donate")
  * [Your account](/account/ "Your account")

__

May 8, 2025: [ PostgreSQL 17.5, 16.9, 15.13, 14.18, and 13.21 Released! ](/about/news/postgresql-175-169-1513-1418-and-1321-released-3072/) | [ PostgreSQL 18 Beta 1 Released! ](/about/news/postgresql-18-beta-1-released-3070/)

[Documentation](/docs/ "Documentation") -> [PostgreSQL
16](/docs/16/index.html)

Supported Versions: [Current](/docs/current/indexes-index-only-scans.html
"PostgreSQL 17 - 11.9. Index-Only Scans and Covering Indexes")
([17](/docs/17/indexes-index-only-scans.html "PostgreSQL 17 - 11.9. Index-Only
Scans and Covering Indexes")) / [16](/docs/16/indexes-index-only-scans.html
"PostgreSQL 16 - 11.9. Index-Only Scans and Covering Indexes") /
[15](/docs/15/indexes-index-only-scans.html "PostgreSQL 15 - 11.9. Index-Only
Scans and Covering Indexes") / [14](/docs/14/indexes-index-only-scans.html
"PostgreSQL 14 - 11.9. Index-Only Scans and Covering Indexes") /
[13](/docs/13/indexes-index-only-scans.html "PostgreSQL 13 - 11.9. Index-Only
Scans and Covering Indexes")

Development Versions: [18](/docs/18/indexes-index-only-scans.html "PostgreSQL
18 - 11.9. Index-Only Scans and Covering Indexes") /
[devel](/docs/devel/indexes-index-only-scans.html "PostgreSQL devel -
11.9. Index-Only Scans and Covering Indexes")

Unsupported versions: [12](/docs/12/indexes-index-only-scans.html "PostgreSQL
12 - 11.9. Index-Only Scans and Covering Indexes") / [11](/docs/11/indexes-
index-only-scans.html "PostgreSQL 11 - 11.9. Index-Only Scans and Covering
Indexes") / [10](/docs/10/indexes-index-only-scans.html "PostgreSQL 10 -
11.9. Index-Only Scans and Covering Indexes") / [9.6](/docs/9.6/indexes-index-
only-scans.html "PostgreSQL 9.6 - 11.9. Index-Only Scans and Covering
Indexes")

__

11.9. Index-Only Scans and Covering Indexes  
---  
[Prev](indexes-partial.html "11.8. Partial Indexes")  | [Up](indexes.html "Chapter 11. Indexes") | Chapter 11. Indexes | [Home](index.html "PostgreSQL 16.9 Documentation") |  [Next](indexes-opclass.html "11.10. Operator Classes and Operator Families")  
  
* * *

## 11.9. Index-Only Scans and Covering Indexes #

All indexes in PostgreSQL are _secondary_ indexes, meaning that each index is
stored separately from the table's main data area (which is called the table's
_heap_ in PostgreSQL terminology). This means that in an ordinary index scan,
each row retrieval requires fetching data from both the index and the heap.
Furthermore, while the index entries that match a given indexable `WHERE`
condition are usually close together in the index, the table rows they
reference might be anywhere in the heap. The heap-access portion of an index
scan thus involves a lot of random access into the heap, which can be slow,
particularly on traditional rotating media. (As described in [Section
11.5](indexes-bitmap-scans.html "11.5. Combining Multiple Indexes"), bitmap
scans try to alleviate this cost by doing the heap accesses in sorted order,
but that only goes so far.)

To solve this performance problem, PostgreSQL supports _index-only scans_ ,
which can answer queries from an index alone without any heap access. The
basic idea is to return values directly out of each index entry instead of
consulting the associated heap entry. There are two fundamental restrictions
on when this method can be used:

  1. The index type must support index-only scans. B-tree indexes always do. GiST and SP-GiST indexes support index-only scans for some operator classes but not others. Other index types have no support. The underlying requirement is that the index must physically store, or else be able to reconstruct, the original data value for each index entry. As a counterexample, GIN indexes cannot support index-only scans because each index entry typically holds only part of the original data value.

  2. The query must reference only columns stored in the index. For example, given an index on columns `x` and `y` of a table that also has a column `z`, these queries could use index-only scans:
         
         SELECT x, y FROM tab WHERE x = 'key';
         SELECT x FROM tab WHERE x = 'key' AND y < 42;
         

but these queries could not:

         
         SELECT x, z FROM tab WHERE x = 'key';
         SELECT x FROM tab WHERE x = 'key' AND z < 42;
         

(Expression indexes and partial indexes complicate this rule, as discussed
below.)

If these two fundamental requirements are met, then all the data values
required by the query are available from the index, so an index-only scan is
physically possible. But there is an additional requirement for any table scan
in PostgreSQL: it must verify that each retrieved row be “visible” to the
query's MVCC snapshot, as discussed in [Chapter 13](mvcc.html
"Chapter 13. Concurrency Control"). Visibility information is not stored in
index entries, only in heap entries; so at first glance it would seem that
every row retrieval would require a heap access anyway. And this is indeed the
case, if the table row has been modified recently. However, for seldom-
changing data there is a way around this problem. PostgreSQL tracks, for each
page in a table's heap, whether all rows stored in that page are old enough to
be visible to all current and future transactions. This information is stored
in a bit in the table's _visibility map_. An index-only scan, after finding a
candidate index entry, checks the visibility map bit for the corresponding
heap page. If it's set, the row is known visible and so the data can be
returned with no further work. If it's not set, the heap entry must be visited
to find out whether it's visible, so no performance advantage is gained over a
standard index scan. Even in the successful case, this approach trades
visibility map accesses for heap accesses; but since the visibility map is
four orders of magnitude smaller than the heap it describes, far less physical
I/O is needed to access it. In most situations the visibility map remains
cached in memory all the time.

In short, while an index-only scan is possible given the two fundamental
requirements, it will be a win only if a significant fraction of the table's
heap pages have their all-visible map bits set. But tables in which a large
fraction of the rows are unchanging are common enough to make this type of
scan very useful in practice.

To make effective use of the index-only scan feature, you might choose to
create a _covering index_ , which is an index specifically designed to include
the columns needed by a particular type of query that you run frequently.
Since queries typically need to retrieve more columns than just the ones they
search on, PostgreSQL allows you to create an index in which some columns are
just “payload” and are not part of the search key. This is done by adding an
`INCLUDE` clause listing the extra columns. For example, if you commonly run
queries like

    
    
    SELECT y FROM tab WHERE x = 'key';
    

the traditional approach to speeding up such queries would be to create an
index on `x` only. However, an index defined as

    
    
    CREATE INDEX tab_x_y ON tab(x) INCLUDE (y);
    

could handle these queries as index-only scans, because `y` can be obtained
from the index without visiting the heap.

Because column `y` is not part of the index's search key, it does not have to
be of a data type that the index can handle; it's merely stored in the index
and is not interpreted by the index machinery. Also, if the index is a unique
index, that is

    
    
    CREATE UNIQUE INDEX tab_x_y ON tab(x) INCLUDE (y);
    

the uniqueness condition applies to just column `x`, not to the combination of
`x` and `y`. (An `INCLUDE` clause can also be written in `UNIQUE` and `PRIMARY
KEY` constraints, providing alternative syntax for setting up an index like
this.)

It's wise to be conservative about adding non-key payload columns to an index,
especially wide columns. If an index tuple exceeds the maximum size allowed
for the index type, data insertion will fail. In any case, non-key columns
duplicate data from the index's table and bloat the size of the index, thus
potentially slowing searches. And remember that there is little point in
including payload columns in an index unless the table changes slowly enough
that an index-only scan is likely to not need to access the heap. If the heap
tuple must be visited anyway, it costs nothing more to get the column's value
from there. Other restrictions are that expressions are not currently
supported as included columns, and that only B-tree, GiST and SP-GiST indexes
currently support included columns.

Before PostgreSQL had the `INCLUDE` feature, people sometimes made covering
indexes by writing the payload columns as ordinary index columns, that is
writing

    
    
    CREATE INDEX tab_x_y ON tab(x, y);
    

even though they had no intention of ever using `y` as part of a `WHERE`
clause. This works fine as long as the extra columns are trailing columns;
making them be leading columns is unwise for the reasons explained in [Section
11.3](indexes-multicolumn.html "11.3. Multicolumn Indexes"). However, this
method doesn't support the case where you want the index to enforce uniqueness
on the key column(s).

_Suffix truncation_ always removes non-key columns from upper B-Tree levels.
As payload columns, they are never used to guide index scans. The truncation
process also removes one or more trailing key column(s) when the remaining
prefix of key column(s) happens to be sufficient to describe tuples on the
lowest B-Tree level. In practice, covering indexes without an `INCLUDE` clause
often avoid storing columns that are effectively payload in the upper levels.
However, explicitly defining payload columns as non-key columns _reliably_
keeps the tuples in upper levels small.

In principle, index-only scans can be used with expression indexes. For
example, given an index on `f(x)` where `x` is a table column, it should be
possible to execute

    
    
    SELECT f(x) FROM tab WHERE f(x) < 1;
    

as an index-only scan; and this is very attractive if `f()` is an expensive-
to-compute function. However, PostgreSQL's planner is currently not very smart
about such cases. It considers a query to be potentially executable by index-
only scan only when all _columns_ needed by the query are available from the
index. In this example, `x` is not needed except in the context `f(x)`, but
the planner does not notice that and concludes that an index-only scan is not
possible. If an index-only scan seems sufficiently worthwhile, this can be
worked around by adding `x` as an included column, for example

    
    
    CREATE INDEX tab_f_x ON tab (f(x)) INCLUDE (x);
    

An additional caveat, if the goal is to avoid recalculating `f(x)`, is that
the planner won't necessarily match uses of `f(x)` that aren't in indexable
`WHERE` clauses to the index column. It will usually get this right in simple
queries such as shown above, but not in queries that involve joins. These
deficiencies may be remedied in future versions of PostgreSQL.

Partial indexes also have interesting interactions with index-only scans.
Consider the partial index shown in [Example 11.3](indexes-
partial.html#INDEXES-PARTIAL-EX3 "Example 11.3. Setting up a Partial Unique
Index"):

    
    
    CREATE UNIQUE INDEX tests_success_constraint ON tests (subject, target)
        WHERE success;
    

In principle, we could do an index-only scan on this index to satisfy a query
like

    
    
    SELECT target FROM tests WHERE subject = 'some-subject' AND success;
    

But there's a problem: the `WHERE` clause refers to `success` which is not
available as a result column of the index. Nonetheless, an index-only scan is
possible because the plan does not need to recheck that part of the `WHERE`
clause at run time: all entries found in the index necessarily have `success =
true` so this need not be explicitly checked in the plan. PostgreSQL versions
9.6 and later will recognize such cases and allow index-only scans to be
generated, but older versions will not.

* * *

[Prev](indexes-partial.html "11.8. Partial Indexes")  | [Up](indexes.html "Chapter 11. Indexes") |  [Next](indexes-opclass.html "11.10. Operator Classes and Operator Families")  
---|---|---  
11.8. Partial Indexes  | [Home](index.html "PostgreSQL 16.9 Documentation") |  11.10. Operator Classes and Operator Families  
  
## Submit correction

If you see anything in the documentation that is not correct, does not match
your experience with the particular feature or requires further clarification,
please use [this form](/account/comments/new/16/indexes-index-only-
scans.html/) to report a documentation issue.

[Privacy Policy](/about/privacypolicy) | [Code of Conduct](/about/policies/coc/) | [About PostgreSQL](/about/) | [Contact](/about/contact/)  

Copyright (C) 1996-2025 The PostgreSQL Global Development Group

