[ ![PostgreSQL Elephant Logo](/media/img/about/press/elephant.png) ](/)

  * [Home](/ "Home")
  * [About](/about/ "About")
  * [Download](/download/ "Download")
  * [Documentation](/docs/ "Documentation")
  * [Community](/community/ "Community")
  * [Developers](/developer/ "Developers")
  * [Support](/support/ "Support")
  * [Donate](/about/donate/ "Donate")
  * [Your account](/account/ "Your account")

__

May 8, 2025: [ PostgreSQL 17.5, 16.9, 15.13, 14.18, and 13.21 Released! ](/about/news/postgresql-175-169-1513-1418-and-1321-released-3072/) | [ PostgreSQL 18 Beta 1 Released! ](/about/news/postgresql-18-beta-1-released-3070/)

[Documentation](/docs/ "Documentation") -> [PostgreSQL
16](/docs/16/index.html)

Supported Versions: [Current](/docs/current/install-binaries.html "PostgreSQL
17 - Chapter 16. Installation from Binaries") ([17](/docs/17/install-
binaries.html "PostgreSQL 17 - Chapter 16. Installation from Binaries")) /
[16](/docs/16/install-binaries.html "PostgreSQL 16 - Chapter 16. Installation
from Binaries") / [15](/docs/15/install-binaries.html "PostgreSQL 15 -
Chapter 16. Installation from Binaries") / [14](/docs/14/install-binaries.html
"PostgreSQL 14 - Chapter 16. Installation from Binaries")

Development Versions: [18](/docs/18/install-binaries.html "PostgreSQL 18 -
Chapter 16. Installation from Binaries") / [devel](/docs/devel/install-
binaries.html "PostgreSQL devel - Chapter 16. Installation from Binaries")

__

Chapter 16. Installation from Binaries  
---  
[Prev](admin.html "Part III. Server Administration")  | [Up](admin.html "Part III. Server Administration") | Part III. Server Administration | [Home](index.html "PostgreSQL 16.9 Documentation") |  [Next](installation.html "Chapter 17. Installation from Source Code")  
  
* * *

## Chapter 16. Installation from Binaries

PostgreSQL is available in the form of binary packages for most common
operating systems today. When available, this is the recommended way to
install PostgreSQL for users of the system. Building from source (see [Chapter
17](installation.html "Chapter 17. Installation from Source Code")) is only
recommended for people developing PostgreSQL or extensions.

For an updated list of platforms providing binary packages, please visit the
download section on the PostgreSQL website at
<https://www.postgresql.org/download/> and follow the instructions for the
specific platform.

* * *

[Prev](admin.html "Part III. Server Administration")  | [Up](admin.html "Part III. Server Administration") |  [Next](installation.html "Chapter 17. Installation from Source Code")  
---|---|---  
Part III. Server Administration  | [Home](index.html "PostgreSQL 16.9 Documentation") |  Chapter 17. Installation from Source Code  
  
## Submit correction

If you see anything in the documentation that is not correct, does not match
your experience with the particular feature or requires further clarification,
please use [this form](/account/comments/new/16/install-binaries.html/) to
report a documentation issue.

[Privacy Policy](/about/privacypolicy) | [Code of Conduct](/about/policies/coc/) | [About PostgreSQL](/about/) | [Contact](/about/contact/)  

Copyright (C) 1996-2025 The PostgreSQL Global Development Group

