[ ![PostgreSQL Elephant Logo](/media/img/about/press/elephant.png) ](/)

  * [Home](/ "Home")
  * [About](/about/ "About")
  * [Download](/download/ "Download")
  * [Documentation](/docs/ "Documentation")
  * [Community](/community/ "Community")
  * [Developers](/developer/ "Developers")
  * [Support](/support/ "Support")
  * [Donate](/about/donate/ "Donate")
  * [Your account](/account/ "Your account")

__

May 8, 2025: [ PostgreSQL 17.5, 16.9, 15.13, 14.18, and 13.21 Released! ](/about/news/postgresql-175-169-1513-1418-and-1321-released-3072/) | [ PostgreSQL 18 Beta 1 Released! ](/about/news/postgresql-18-beta-1-released-3070/)

[Documentation](/docs/ "Documentation") -> [PostgreSQL
16](/docs/16/index.html)

Supported Versions: [Current](/docs/current/install-make.html "PostgreSQL 17 -
17.3. Building and Installation with Autoconf and Make")
([17](/docs/17/install-make.html "PostgreSQL 17 - 17.3. Building and
Installation with Autoconf and Make")) / [16](/docs/16/install-make.html
"PostgreSQL 16 - 17.3. Building and Installation with Autoconf and Make")

Development Versions: [18](/docs/18/install-make.html "PostgreSQL 18 -
17.3. Building and Installation with Autoconf and Make") /
[devel](/docs/devel/install-make.html "PostgreSQL devel - 17.3. Building and
Installation with Autoconf and Make")

__

17.3. Building and Installation with Autoconf and Make  
---  
[Prev](install-getsource.html "17.2. Getting the Source")  | [Up](installation.html "Chapter 17. Installation from Source Code") | Chapter 17. Installation from Source Code | [Home](index.html "PostgreSQL 16.9 Documentation") |  [Next](install-meson.html "17.4. Building and Installation with Meson")  
  
* * *

## 17.3. Building and Installation with Autoconf and Make #

[17.3.1. Short Version](install-make.html#INSTALL-SHORT-MAKE)

[17.3.2. Installation Procedure](install-make.html#INSTALL-PROCEDURE-MAKE)

[17.3.3. `configure` Options](install-make.html#CONFIGURE-OPTIONS)

[17.3.4. `configure` Environment Variables](install-make.html#CONFIGURE-
ENVVARS)

### 17.3.1. Short Version #

    
    
    ./configure
    make
    su
    make install
    adduser postgres
    mkdir -p /usr/local/pgsql/data
    chown postgres /usr/local/pgsql/data
    su - postgres
    /usr/local/pgsql/bin/initdb -D /usr/local/pgsql/data
    /usr/local/pgsql/bin/pg_ctl -D /usr/local/pgsql/data -l logfile start
    /usr/local/pgsql/bin/createdb test
    /usr/local/pgsql/bin/psql test
    

The long version is the rest of this section.

### 17.3.2. Installation Procedure #

  1. **Configuration**

The first step of the installation procedure is to configure the source tree
for your system and choose the options you would like. This is done by running
the `configure` script. For a default installation simply enter:

         
         **./configure**
         

This script will run a number of tests to determine values for various system
dependent variables and detect any quirks of your operating system, and
finally will create several files in the build tree to record what it found.

You can also run `configure` in a directory outside the source tree, and then
build there, if you want to keep the build directory separate from the
original source files. This procedure is called a _VPATH_ build. Here's how:

         
         **mkdir build_dir**
         **cd build_dir**
         **/path/to/source/tree/configure [options go here]**
         **make**
         

The default configuration will build the server and utilities, as well as all
client applications and interfaces that require only a C compiler. All files
will be installed under `/usr/local/pgsql` by default.

You can customize the build and installation process by supplying one or more
command line options to `configure`. Typically you would customize the install
location, or the set of optional features that are built. `configure` has a
large number of options, which are described in [Section 17.3.3](install-
make.html#CONFIGURE-OPTIONS "17.3.3. configure Options").

Also, `configure` responds to certain environment variables, as described in
[Section 17.3.4](install-make.html#CONFIGURE-ENVVARS "17.3.4. configure
Environment Variables"). These provide additional ways to customize the
configuration.

  2. **Build**

To start the build, type either of:

         
         **make**
         **make all**
         

(Remember to use GNU make.) The build will take a few minutes depending on
your hardware.

If you want to build everything that can be built, including the documentation
(HTML and man pages), and the additional modules (`contrib`), type instead:

         
         **make world**
         

If you want to build everything that can be built, including the additional
modules (`contrib`), but without the documentation, type instead:

         
         **make world-bin**
         

If you want to invoke the build from another makefile rather than manually,
you must unset `MAKELEVEL` or set it to zero, for instance like this:

         
         build-postgresql:
                 $(MAKE) -C postgresql MAKELEVEL=0 all
         

Failure to do that can lead to strange error messages, typically about missing
header files.

  3. **Regression Tests**

If you want to test the newly built server before you install it, you can run
the regression tests at this point. The regression tests are a test suite to
verify that PostgreSQL runs on your machine in the way the developers expected
it to. Type:

         
         **make check**
         

(This won't work as root; do it as an unprivileged user.) See [Chapter
33](regress.html "Chapter 33. Regression Tests") for detailed information
about interpreting the test results. You can repeat this test at any later
time by issuing the same command.

  4. **Installing the Files**

### Note

If you are upgrading an existing system be sure to read [Section
19.6](upgrading.html "19.6. Upgrading a PostgreSQL Cluster"), which has
instructions about upgrading a cluster.

To install PostgreSQL enter:

         
         **make install**
         

This will install files into the directories that were specified in [Step
1](install-make.html#CONFIGURE "Configuration"). Make sure that you have
appropriate permissions to write into that area. Normally you need to do this
step as root. Alternatively, you can create the target directories in advance
and arrange for appropriate permissions to be granted.

To install the documentation (HTML and man pages), enter:

         
         **make install-docs**
         

If you built the world above, type instead:

         
         **make install-world**
         

This also installs the documentation.

If you built the world without the documentation above, type instead:

         
         **make install-world-bin**
         

You can use `make install-strip` instead of `make install` to strip the
executable files and libraries as they are installed. This will save some
space. If you built with debugging support, stripping will effectively remove
the debugging support, so it should only be done if debugging is no longer
needed. `install-strip` tries to do a reasonable job saving space, but it does
not have perfect knowledge of how to strip every unneeded byte from an
executable file, so if you want to save all the disk space you possibly can,
you will have to do manual work.

The standard installation provides all the header files needed for client
application development as well as for server-side program development, such
as custom functions or data types written in C.

**Client-only installation:  ** If you want to install only the client
applications and interface libraries, then you can use these commands:

         
         **make -C src/bin install**
         **make -C src/include install**
         **make -C src/interfaces install**
         **make -C doc install**
         

`src/bin` has a few binaries for server-only use, but they are small.

**Uninstallation:  ** To undo the installation use the command `make
uninstall`. However, this will not remove any created directories.

**Cleaning:  ** After the installation you can free disk space by removing the
built files from the source tree with the command `make clean`. This will
preserve the files made by the `configure` program, so that you can rebuild
everything with `make` later on. To reset the source tree to the state in
which it was distributed, use `make distclean`. If you are going to build for
several platforms within the same source tree you must do this and re-
configure for each platform. (Alternatively, use a separate build tree for
each platform, so that the source tree remains unmodified.)

If you perform a build and then discover that your `configure` options were
wrong, or if you change anything that `configure` investigates (for example,
software upgrades), then it's a good idea to do `make distclean` before
reconfiguring and rebuilding. Without this, your changes in configuration
choices might not propagate everywhere they need to.

### 17.3.3. `configure` Options #

`configure`'s command line options are explained below. This list is not
exhaustive (use `./configure --help` to get one that is). The options not
covered here are meant for advanced use-cases such as cross-compilation, and
are documented in the standard Autoconf documentation.

#### 17.3.3.1. Installation Locations #

These options control where `make install` will put the files. The `--prefix`
option is sufficient for most cases. If you have special needs, you can
customize the installation subdirectories with the other options described in
this section. Beware however that changing the relative locations of the
different subdirectories may render the installation non-relocatable, meaning
you won't be able to move it after installation. (The `man` and `doc`
locations are not affected by this restriction.) For relocatable installs, you
might want to use the `--disable-rpath` option described later.

`--prefix=_`PREFIX`_` #

    

Install all files under the directory _`PREFIX`_ instead of
`/usr/local/pgsql`. The actual files will be installed into various
subdirectories; no files will ever be installed directly into the _`PREFIX`_
directory.

`--exec-prefix=_`EXEC-PREFIX`_` #

    

You can install architecture-dependent files under a different prefix, _`EXEC-
PREFIX`_ , than what _`PREFIX`_ was set to. This can be useful to share
architecture-independent files between hosts. If you omit this, then _`EXEC-
PREFIX`_ is set equal to _`PREFIX`_ and both architecture-dependent and
independent files will be installed under the same tree, which is probably
what you want.

`--bindir=_`DIRECTORY`_` #

    

Specifies the directory for executable programs. The default is `_`EXEC-
PREFIX`_ /bin`, which normally means `/usr/local/pgsql/bin`.

`--sysconfdir=_`DIRECTORY`_` #

    

Sets the directory for various configuration files, `_`PREFIX`_ /etc` by
default.

`--libdir=_`DIRECTORY`_` #

    

Sets the location to install libraries and dynamically loadable modules. The
default is `_`EXEC-PREFIX`_ /lib`.

`--includedir=_`DIRECTORY`_` #

    

Sets the directory for installing C and C++ header files. The default is
`_`PREFIX`_ /include`.

`--datarootdir=_`DIRECTORY`_` #

    

Sets the root directory for various types of read-only data files. This only
sets the default for some of the following options. The default is `_`PREFIX`_
/share`.

`--datadir=_`DIRECTORY`_` #

    

Sets the directory for read-only data files used by the installed programs.
The default is `_`DATAROOTDIR`_`. Note that this has nothing to do with where
your database files will be placed.

`--localedir=_`DIRECTORY`_` #

    

Sets the directory for installing locale data, in particular message
translation catalog files. The default is `_`DATAROOTDIR`_ /locale`.

`--mandir=_`DIRECTORY`_` #

    

The man pages that come with PostgreSQL will be installed under this
directory, in their respective `man _`x`_` subdirectories. The default is
`_`DATAROOTDIR`_ /man`.

`--docdir=_`DIRECTORY`_` #

    

Sets the root directory for installing documentation files, except “man”
pages. This only sets the default for the following options. The default value
for this option is `_`DATAROOTDIR`_ /doc/postgresql`.

`--htmldir=_`DIRECTORY`_` #

    

The HTML-formatted documentation for PostgreSQL will be installed under this
directory. The default is `_`DATAROOTDIR`_`.

### Note

Care has been taken to make it possible to install PostgreSQL into shared
installation locations (such as `/usr/local/include`) without interfering with
the namespace of the rest of the system. First, the string “`/postgresql`” is
automatically appended to `datadir`, `sysconfdir`, and `docdir`, unless the
fully expanded directory name already contains the string “`postgres`” or
“`pgsql`”. For example, if you choose `/usr/local` as prefix, the
documentation will be installed in `/usr/local/doc/postgresql`, but if the
prefix is `/opt/postgres`, then it will be in `/opt/postgres/doc`. The public
C header files of the client interfaces are installed into `includedir` and
are namespace-clean. The internal header files and the server header files are
installed into private directories under `includedir`. See the documentation
of each interface for information about how to access its header files.
Finally, a private subdirectory will also be created, if appropriate, under
`libdir` for dynamically loadable modules.

#### 17.3.3.2. PostgreSQL Features #

The options described in this section enable building of various PostgreSQL
features that are not built by default. Most of these are non-default only
because they require additional software, as described in [Section
17.1](install-requirements.html "17.1. Requirements").

`--enable-nls[=_`LANGUAGES`_]` #

    

Enables Native Language Support (NLS), that is, the ability to display a
program's messages in a language other than English. _`LANGUAGES`_ is an
optional space-separated list of codes of the languages that you want
supported, for example `--enable-nls='de fr'`. (The intersection between your
list and the set of actually provided translations will be computed
automatically.) If you do not specify a list, then all available translations
are installed.

To use this option, you will need an implementation of the Gettext API.

`--with-perl` #

    

Build the PL/Perl server-side language.

`--with-python` #

    

Build the PL/Python server-side language.

`--with-tcl` #

    

Build the PL/Tcl server-side language.

`--with-tclconfig=_`DIRECTORY`_` #

    

Tcl installs the file `tclConfig.sh`, which contains configuration information
needed to build modules interfacing to Tcl. This file is normally found
automatically at a well-known location, but if you want to use a different
version of Tcl you can specify the directory in which to look for
`tclConfig.sh`.

`--with-llvm` #

    

Build with support for LLVM based JIT compilation (see [Chapter 32](jit.html
"Chapter 32. Just-in-Time Compilation \(JIT\)")). This requires the LLVM
library to be installed. The minimum required version of LLVM is currently
3.9.

`llvm-config` will be used to find the required compilation options. `llvm-
config`, and then `llvm-config-$major-$minor` for all supported versions, will
be searched for in your `PATH`. If that would not yield the desired program,
use `LLVM_CONFIG` to specify a path to the correct `llvm-config`. For example

    
    
    ./configure ... --with-llvm LLVM_CONFIG='/path/to/llvm/bin/llvm-config'
    

LLVM support requires a compatible `clang` compiler (specified, if necessary,
using the `CLANG` environment variable), and a working C++ compiler
(specified, if necessary, using the `CXX` environment variable).

`--with-lz4` #

    

Build with LZ4 compression support.

`--with-zstd` #

    

Build with Zstandard compression support.

`--with-ssl=_`LIBRARY`_` #

    

Build with support for SSL (encrypted) connections. The only _`LIBRARY`_
supported is `openssl`. This requires the OpenSSL package to be installed.
`configure` will check for the required header files and libraries to make
sure that your OpenSSL installation is sufficient before proceeding.

`--with-openssl` #

    

Obsolete equivalent of `--with-ssl=openssl`.

`--with-gssapi` #

    

Build with support for GSSAPI authentication. MIT Kerberos is required to be
installed for GSSAPI. On many systems, the GSSAPI system (a part of the MIT
Kerberos installation) is not installed in a location that is searched by
default (e.g., `/usr/include`, `/usr/lib`), so you must use the options
`--with-includes` and `--with-libraries` in addition to this option.
`configure` will check for the required header files and libraries to make
sure that your GSSAPI installation is sufficient before proceeding.

`--with-ldap` #

    

Build with LDAP support for authentication and connection parameter lookup
(see [Section 34.18](libpq-ldap.html "34.18. LDAP Lookup of Connection
Parameters") and [Section 21.10](auth-ldap.html "21.10. LDAP Authentication")
for more information). On Unix, this requires the OpenLDAP package to be
installed. On Windows, the default WinLDAP library is used. `configure` will
check for the required header files and libraries to make sure that your
OpenLDAP installation is sufficient before proceeding.

`--with-pam` #

    

Build with PAM (Pluggable Authentication Modules) support.

`--with-bsd-auth` #

    

Build with BSD Authentication support. (The BSD Authentication framework is
currently only available on OpenBSD.)

`--with-systemd` #

    

Build with support for systemd service notifications. This improves
integration if the server is started under systemd but has no impact
otherwise; see [Section 19.3](server-start.html "19.3. Starting the Database
Server") for more information. libsystemd and the associated header files need
to be installed to use this option.

`--with-bonjour` #

    

Build with support for Bonjour automatic service discovery. This requires
Bonjour support in your operating system. Recommended on macOS.

`--with-uuid=_`LIBRARY`_` #

    

Build the [uuid-ossp](uuid-ossp.html "F.49. uuid-ossp — a UUID generator")
module (which provides functions to generate UUIDs), using the specified UUID
library. _`LIBRARY`_ must be one of:

  * `bsd` to use the UUID functions found in FreeBSD and some other BSD-derived systems

  * `e2fs` to use the UUID library created by the `e2fsprogs` project; this library is present in most Linux systems and in macOS, and can be obtained for other platforms as well

  * `ossp` to use the [OSSP UUID library](http://www.ossp.org/pkg/lib/uuid/)

`--with-ossp-uuid` #

    

Obsolete equivalent of `--with-uuid=ossp`.

`--with-libxml` #

    

Build with libxml2, enabling SQL/XML support. Libxml2 version 2.6.23 or later
is required for this feature.

To detect the required compiler and linker options, PostgreSQL will query
`pkg-config`, if that is installed and knows about libxml2. Otherwise the
program `xml2-config`, which is installed by libxml2, will be used if it is
found. Use of `pkg-config` is preferred, because it can deal with multi-
architecture installations better.

To use a libxml2 installation that is in an unusual location, you can set
`pkg-config`-related environment variables (see its documentation), or set the
environment variable `XML2_CONFIG` to point to the `xml2-config` program
belonging to the libxml2 installation, or set the variables `XML2_CFLAGS` and
`XML2_LIBS`. (If `pkg-config` is installed, then to override its idea of where
libxml2 is you must either set `XML2_CONFIG` or set both `XML2_CFLAGS` and
`XML2_LIBS` to nonempty strings.)

`--with-libxslt` #

    

Build with libxslt, enabling the [xml2](xml2.html "F.50. xml2 — XPath querying
and XSLT functionality") module to perform XSL transformations of XML.
`--with-libxml` must be specified as well.

#### 17.3.3.3. Anti-Features #

The options described in this section allow disabling certain PostgreSQL
features that are built by default, but which might need to be turned off if
the required software or system features are not available. Using these
options is not recommended unless really necessary.

`--without-icu` #

    

Build without support for the ICU library, disabling the use of ICU collation
features (see [Section 24.2](collation.html "24.2. Collation Support")).

`--without-readline` #

    

Prevents use of the Readline library (and libedit as well). This option
disables command-line editing and history in psql.

`--with-libedit-preferred` #

    

Favors the use of the BSD-licensed libedit library rather than GPL-licensed
Readline. This option is significant only if you have both libraries
installed; the default in that case is to use Readline.

`--without-zlib` #

    

Prevents use of the Zlib library. This disables support for compressed
archives in pg_dump and pg_restore.

`--disable-spinlocks` #

    

Allow the build to succeed even if PostgreSQL has no CPU spinlock support for
the platform. The lack of spinlock support will result in very poor
performance; therefore, this option should only be used if the build aborts
and informs you that the platform lacks spinlock support. If this option is
required to build PostgreSQL on your platform, please report the problem to
the PostgreSQL developers.

`--disable-atomics` #

    

Disable use of CPU atomic operations. This option does nothing on platforms
that lack such operations. On platforms that do have them, this will result in
poor performance. This option is only useful for debugging or making
performance comparisons.

`--disable-thread-safety` #

    

Disable the thread-safety of client libraries. This prevents concurrent
threads in libpq and ECPG programs from safely controlling their private
connection handles. Use this only on platforms with deficient threading
support.

#### 17.3.3.4. Build Process Details #

`--with-includes=_`DIRECTORIES`_` #

    

_`DIRECTORIES`_ is a colon-separated list of directories that will be added to
the list the compiler searches for header files. If you have optional packages
(such as GNU Readline) installed in a non-standard location, you have to use
this option and probably also the corresponding `--with-libraries` option.

Example: `--with-includes=/opt/gnu/include:/usr/sup/include`.

`--with-libraries=_`DIRECTORIES`_` #

    

_`DIRECTORIES`_ is a colon-separated list of directories to search for
libraries. You will probably have to use this option (and the corresponding
`--with-includes` option) if you have packages installed in non-standard
locations.

Example: `--with-libraries=/opt/gnu/lib:/usr/sup/lib`.

`--with-system-tzdata=_`DIRECTORY`_` #

    

PostgreSQL includes its own time zone database, which it requires for date and
time operations. This time zone database is in fact compatible with the IANA
time zone database provided by many operating systems such as FreeBSD, Linux,
and Solaris, so it would be redundant to install it again. When this option is
used, the system-supplied time zone database in _`DIRECTORY`_ is used instead
of the one included in the PostgreSQL source distribution. _`DIRECTORY`_ must
be specified as an absolute path. `/usr/share/zoneinfo` is a likely directory
on some operating systems. Note that the installation routine will not detect
mismatching or erroneous time zone data. If you use this option, you are
advised to run the regression tests to verify that the time zone data you have
pointed to works correctly with PostgreSQL.

This option is mainly aimed at binary package distributors who know their
target operating system well. The main advantage of using this option is that
the PostgreSQL package won't need to be upgraded whenever any of the many
local daylight-saving time rules change. Another advantage is that PostgreSQL
can be cross-compiled more straightforwardly if the time zone database files
do not need to be built during the installation.

`--with-extra-version=_`STRING`_` #

    

Append _`STRING`_ to the PostgreSQL version number. You can use this, for
example, to mark binaries built from unreleased Git snapshots or containing
custom patches with an extra version string, such as a `git describe`
identifier or a distribution package release number.

`--disable-rpath` #

    

Do not mark PostgreSQL's executables to indicate that they should search for
shared libraries in the installation's library directory (see `--libdir`). On
most platforms, this marking uses an absolute path to the library directory,
so that it will be unhelpful if you relocate the installation later. However,
you will then need to provide some other way for the executables to find the
shared libraries. Typically this requires configuring the operating system's
dynamic linker to search the library directory; see [Section 17.5.1](install-
post.html#INSTALL-POST-SHLIBS "17.5.1. Shared Libraries") for more detail.

#### 17.3.3.5. Miscellaneous #

It's fairly common, particularly for test builds, to adjust the default port
number with `--with-pgport`. The other options in this section are recommended
only for advanced users.

`--with-pgport=_`NUMBER`_` #

    

Set _`NUMBER`_ as the default port number for server and clients. The default
is 5432. The port can always be changed later on, but if you specify it here
then both server and clients will have the same default compiled in, which can
be very convenient. Usually the only good reason to select a non-default value
is if you intend to run multiple PostgreSQL servers on the same machine.

`--with-krb-srvnam=_`NAME`_` #

    

The default name of the Kerberos service principal used by GSSAPI. `postgres`
is the default. There's usually no reason to change this unless you are
building for a Windows environment, in which case it must be set to upper case
`POSTGRES`.

`--with-segsize=_`SEGSIZE`_` #

    

Set the _segment size_ , in gigabytes. Large tables are divided into multiple
operating-system files, each of size equal to the segment size. This avoids
problems with file size limits that exist on many platforms. The default
segment size, 1 gigabyte, is safe on all supported platforms. If your
operating system has “largefile” support (which most do, nowadays), you can
use a larger segment size. This can be helpful to reduce the number of file
descriptors consumed when working with very large tables. But be careful not
to select a value larger than is supported by your platform and the file
systems you intend to use. Other tools you might wish to use, such as tar,
could also set limits on the usable file size. It is recommended, though not
absolutely required, that this value be a power of 2. Note that changing this
value breaks on-disk database compatibility, meaning you cannot use
`pg_upgrade` to upgrade to a build with a different segment size.

`--with-blocksize=_`BLOCKSIZE`_` #

    

Set the _block size_ , in kilobytes. This is the unit of storage and I/O
within tables. The default, 8 kilobytes, is suitable for most situations; but
other values may be useful in special cases. The value must be a power of 2
between 1 and 32 (kilobytes). Note that changing this value breaks on-disk
database compatibility, meaning you cannot use `pg_upgrade` to upgrade to a
build with a different block size.

`--with-wal-blocksize=_`BLOCKSIZE`_` #

    

Set the _WAL block size_ , in kilobytes. This is the unit of storage and I/O
within the WAL log. The default, 8 kilobytes, is suitable for most situations;
but other values may be useful in special cases. The value must be a power of
2 between 1 and 64 (kilobytes). Note that changing this value breaks on-disk
database compatibility, meaning you cannot use `pg_upgrade` to upgrade to a
build with a different WAL block size.

#### 17.3.3.6. Developer Options #

Most of the options in this section are only of interest for developing or
debugging PostgreSQL. They are not recommended for production builds, except
for `--enable-debug`, which can be useful to enable detailed bug reports in
the unlucky event that you encounter a bug. On platforms supporting DTrace,
`--enable-dtrace` may also be reasonable to use in production.

When building an installation that will be used to develop code inside the
server, it is recommended to use at least the options `--enable-debug` and
`--enable-cassert`.

`--enable-debug` #

    

Compiles all programs and libraries with debugging symbols. This means that
you can run the programs in a debugger to analyze problems. This enlarges the
size of the installed executables considerably, and on non-GCC compilers it
usually also disables compiler optimization, causing slowdowns. However,
having the symbols available is extremely helpful for dealing with any
problems that might arise. Currently, this option is recommended for
production installations only if you use GCC. But you should always have it on
if you are doing development work or running a beta version.

`--enable-cassert` #

    

Enables _assertion_ checks in the server, which test for many “cannot happen”
conditions. This is invaluable for code development purposes, but the tests
can slow down the server significantly. Also, having the tests turned on won't
necessarily enhance the stability of your server! The assertion checks are not
categorized for severity, and so what might be a relatively harmless bug will
still lead to server restarts if it triggers an assertion failure. This option
is not recommended for production use, but you should have it on for
development work or when running a beta version.

`--enable-tap-tests` #

    

Enable tests using the Perl TAP tools. This requires a Perl installation and
the Perl module `IPC::Run`. See [Section 33.4](regress-tap.html "33.4. TAP
Tests") for more information.

`--enable-depend` #

    

Enables automatic dependency tracking. With this option, the makefiles are set
up so that all affected object files will be rebuilt when any header file is
changed. This is useful if you are doing development work, but is just wasted
overhead if you intend only to compile once and install. At present, this
option only works with GCC.

`--enable-coverage` #

    

If using GCC, all programs and libraries are compiled with code coverage
testing instrumentation. When run, they generate files in the build directory
with code coverage metrics. See [Section 33.5](regress-coverage.html
"33.5. Test Coverage Examination") for more information. This option is for
use only with GCC and when doing development work.

`--enable-profiling` #

    

If using GCC, all programs and libraries are compiled so they can be profiled.
On backend exit, a subdirectory will be created that contains the `gmon.out`
file containing profile data. This option is for use only with GCC and when
doing development work.

`--enable-dtrace` #

    

Compiles PostgreSQL with support for the dynamic tracing tool DTrace. See
[Section 28.5](dynamic-trace.html "28.5. Dynamic Tracing") for more
information.

To point to the `dtrace` program, the environment variable `DTRACE` can be
set. This will often be necessary because `dtrace` is typically installed
under `/usr/sbin`, which might not be in your `PATH`.

Extra command-line options for the `dtrace` program can be specified in the
environment variable `DTRACEFLAGS`. On Solaris, to include DTrace support in a
64-bit binary, you must specify `DTRACEFLAGS="-64"`. For example, using the
GCC compiler:

    
    
    ./configure CC='gcc -m64' --enable-dtrace DTRACEFLAGS='-64' ...
    

Using Sun's compiler:

    
    
    ./configure CC='/opt/SUNWspro/bin/cc -xtarget=native64' --enable-dtrace DTRACEFLAGS='-64' ...
    

`--with-segsize-blocks=SEGSIZE_BLOCKS` #

    

Specify the relation segment size in blocks. If both `--with-segsize` and this
option are specified, this option wins. This option is only for developers, to
test segment related code.

### 17.3.4. `configure` Environment Variables #

In addition to the ordinary command-line options described above, `configure`
responds to a number of environment variables. You can specify environment
variables on the `configure` command line, for example:

    
    
    **./configure CC=/opt/bin/gcc CFLAGS='-O2 -pipe'**
    

In this usage an environment variable is little different from a command-line
option. You can also set such variables beforehand:

    
    
    **export CC=/opt/bin/gcc**
    **export CFLAGS='-O2 -pipe'**
    **./configure**
    

This usage can be convenient because many programs' configuration scripts
respond to these variables in similar ways.

The most commonly used of these environment variables are `CC` and `CFLAGS`.
If you prefer a C compiler different from the one `configure` picks, you can
set the variable `CC` to the program of your choice. By default, `configure`
will pick `gcc` if available, else the platform's default (usually `cc`).
Similarly, you can override the default compiler flags if needed with the
`CFLAGS` variable.

Here is a list of the significant variables that can be set in this manner:

`BISON` #

    

Bison program

`CC` #

    

C compiler

`CFLAGS` #

    

options to pass to the C compiler

`CLANG` #

    

path to `clang` program used to process source code for inlining when
compiling with `--with-llvm`

`CPP` #

    

C preprocessor

`CPPFLAGS` #

    

options to pass to the C preprocessor

`CXX` #

    

C++ compiler

`CXXFLAGS` #

    

options to pass to the C++ compiler

`DTRACE` #

    

location of the `dtrace` program

`DTRACEFLAGS` #

    

options to pass to the `dtrace` program

`FLEX` #

    

Flex program

`LDFLAGS` #

    

options to use when linking either executables or shared libraries

`LDFLAGS_EX` #

    

additional options for linking executables only

`LDFLAGS_SL` #

    

additional options for linking shared libraries only

`LLVM_CONFIG` #

    

`llvm-config` program used to locate the LLVM installation

`MSGFMT` #

    

`msgfmt` program for native language support

`PERL` #

    

Perl interpreter program. This will be used to determine the dependencies for
building PL/Perl. The default is `perl`.

`PYTHON` #

    

Python interpreter program. This will be used to determine the dependencies
for building PL/Python. If this is not set, the following are probed in this
order: `python3 python`.

`TCLSH` #

    

Tcl interpreter program. This will be used to determine the dependencies for
building PL/Tcl. If this is not set, the following are probed in this order:
`tclsh tcl tclsh8.6 tclsh86 tclsh8.5 tclsh85 tclsh8.4 tclsh84`.

`XML2_CONFIG` #

    

`xml2-config` program used to locate the libxml2 installation

Sometimes it is useful to add compiler flags after-the-fact to the set that
were chosen by `configure`. An important example is that gcc's `-Werror`
option cannot be included in the `CFLAGS` passed to `configure`, because it
will break many of `configure`'s built-in tests. To add such flags, include
them in the `COPT` environment variable while running `make`. The contents of
`COPT` are added to both the `CFLAGS` and `LDFLAGS` options set up by
`configure`. For example, you could do

    
    
    **make COPT='-Werror'**
    

or

    
    
    **export COPT='-Werror'**
    **make**
    

### Note

If using GCC, it is best to build with an optimization level of at least
`-O1`, because using no optimization (`-O0`) disables some important compiler
warnings (such as the use of uninitialized variables). However, non-zero
optimization levels can complicate debugging because stepping through compiled
code will usually not match up one-to-one with source code lines. If you get
confused while trying to debug optimized code, recompile the specific files of
interest with `-O0`. An easy way to do this is by passing an option to make:
`make PROFILE=-O0 file.o`.

The `COPT` and `PROFILE` environment variables are actually handled
identically by the PostgreSQL makefiles. Which to use is a matter of
preference, but a common habit among developers is to use `PROFILE` for one-
time flag adjustments, while `COPT` might be kept set all the time.

* * *

[Prev](install-getsource.html "17.2. Getting the Source")  | [Up](installation.html "Chapter 17. Installation from Source Code") |  [Next](install-meson.html "17.4. Building and Installation with Meson")  
---|---|---  
17.2. Getting the Source  | [Home](index.html "PostgreSQL 16.9 Documentation") |  17.4. Building and Installation with Meson  
  
## Submit correction

If you see anything in the documentation that is not correct, does not match
your experience with the particular feature or requires further clarification,
please use [this form](/account/comments/new/16/install-make.html/) to report
a documentation issue.

[Privacy Policy](/about/privacypolicy) | [Code of Conduct](/about/policies/coc/) | [About PostgreSQL](/about/) | [Contact](/about/contact/)  

Copyright (C) 1996-2025 The PostgreSQL Global Development Group

