[ ![PostgreSQL Elephant Logo](/media/img/about/press/elephant.png) ](/)

  * [Home](/ "Home")
  * [About](/about/ "About")
  * [Download](/download/ "Download")
  * [Documentation](/docs/ "Documentation")
  * [Community](/community/ "Community")
  * [Developers](/developer/ "Developers")
  * [Support](/support/ "Support")
  * [Donate](/about/donate/ "Donate")
  * [Your account](/account/ "Your account")

__

May 8, 2025: [ PostgreSQL 17.5, 16.9, 15.13, 14.18, and 13.21 Released! ](/about/news/postgresql-175-169-1513-1418-and-1321-released-3072/) | [ PostgreSQL 18 Beta 1 Released! ](/about/news/postgresql-18-beta-1-released-3070/)

[Documentation](/docs/ "Documentation") -> [PostgreSQL
16](/docs/16/index.html)

Supported Versions: [Current](/docs/current/libpq-connect.html "PostgreSQL 17
- 34.1. Database Connection Control Functions") ([17](/docs/17/libpq-
connect.html "PostgreSQL 17 - 34.1. Database Connection Control Functions")) /
[16](/docs/16/libpq-connect.html "PostgreSQL 16 - 34.1. Database Connection
Control Functions") / [15](/docs/15/libpq-connect.html "PostgreSQL 15 -
34.1. Database Connection Control Functions") / [14](/docs/14/libpq-
connect.html "PostgreSQL 14 - 34.1. Database Connection Control Functions") /
[13](/docs/13/libpq-connect.html "PostgreSQL 13 - 34.1. Database Connection
Control Functions")

Development Versions: [18](/docs/18/libpq-connect.html "PostgreSQL 18 -
34.1. Database Connection Control Functions") / [devel](/docs/devel/libpq-
connect.html "PostgreSQL devel - 34.1. Database Connection Control Functions")

Unsupported versions: [12](/docs/12/libpq-connect.html "PostgreSQL 12 -
34.1. Database Connection Control Functions") / [11](/docs/11/libpq-
connect.html "PostgreSQL 11 - 34.1. Database Connection Control Functions") /
[10](/docs/10/libpq-connect.html "PostgreSQL 10 - 34.1. Database Connection
Control Functions") / [9.6](/docs/9.6/libpq-connect.html "PostgreSQL 9.6 -
34.1. Database Connection Control Functions") / [9.5](/docs/9.5/libpq-
connect.html "PostgreSQL 9.5 - 34.1. Database Connection Control Functions") /
[9.4](/docs/9.4/libpq-connect.html "PostgreSQL 9.4 - 34.1. Database Connection
Control Functions") / [9.3](/docs/9.3/libpq-connect.html "PostgreSQL 9.3 -
34.1. Database Connection Control Functions") / [9.2](/docs/9.2/libpq-
connect.html "PostgreSQL 9.2 - 34.1. Database Connection Control Functions") /
[9.1](/docs/9.1/libpq-connect.html "PostgreSQL 9.1 - 34.1. Database Connection
Control Functions") / [9.0](/docs/9.0/libpq-connect.html "PostgreSQL 9.0 -
34.1. Database Connection Control Functions") / [8.4](/docs/8.4/libpq-
connect.html "PostgreSQL 8.4 - 34.1. Database Connection Control Functions") /
[8.3](/docs/8.3/libpq-connect.html "PostgreSQL 8.3 - 34.1. Database Connection
Control Functions") / [8.2](/docs/8.2/libpq-connect.html "PostgreSQL 8.2 -
34.1. Database Connection Control Functions") / [7.3](/docs/7.3/libpq-
connect.html "PostgreSQL 7.3 - 34.1. Database Connection Control Functions") /
[7.2](/docs/7.2/libpq-connect.html "PostgreSQL 7.2 - 34.1. Database Connection
Control Functions")

__

34.1. Database Connection Control Functions  
---  
[Prev](libpq.html "Chapter 34. libpq — C Library")  | [Up](libpq.html "Chapter 34. libpq — C Library") | Chapter 34. libpq — C Library | [Home](index.html "PostgreSQL 16.9 Documentation") |  [Next](libpq-status.html "34.2. Connection Status Functions")  
  
* * *

## 34.1. Database Connection Control Functions #

[34.1.1. Connection Strings](libpq-connect.html#LIBPQ-CONNSTRING)

[34.1.2. Parameter Key Words](libpq-connect.html#LIBPQ-PARAMKEYWORDS)

The following functions deal with making a connection to a PostgreSQL backend
server. An application program can have several backend connections open at
one time. (One reason to do that is to access more than one database.) Each
connection is represented by a `PGconn` object, which is obtained from the
function [`PQconnectdb`](libpq-connect.html#LIBPQ-PQCONNECTDB),
[`PQconnectdbParams`](libpq-connect.html#LIBPQ-PQCONNECTDBPARAMS), or
[`PQsetdbLogin`](libpq-connect.html#LIBPQ-PQSETDBLOGIN). Note that these
functions will always return a non-null object pointer, unless perhaps there
is too little memory even to allocate the `PGconn` object. The
[`PQstatus`](libpq-status.html#LIBPQ-PQSTATUS) function should be called to
check the return value for a successful connection before queries are sent via
the connection object.

### Warning

If untrusted users have access to a database that has not adopted a [secure
schema usage pattern](ddl-schemas.html#DDL-SCHEMAS-PATTERNS "5.9.6. Usage
Patterns"), begin each session by removing publicly-writable schemas from
`search_path`. One can set parameter key word `options` to value
`-csearch_path=`. Alternately, one can issue `PQexec(_`conn`_ , "SELECT
pg_catalog.set_config('search_path', '', false)")` after connecting. This
consideration is not specific to libpq; it applies to every interface for
executing arbitrary SQL commands.

### Warning

On Unix, forking a process with open libpq connections can lead to
unpredictable results because the parent and child processes share the same
sockets and operating system resources. For this reason, such usage is not
recommended, though doing an `exec` from the child process to load a new
executable is safe.

`PQconnectdbParams` #

    

Makes a new connection to the database server.

    
    
    PGconn *PQconnectdbParams(const char * const *keywords,
                              const char * const *values,
                              int expand_dbname);
    

This function opens a new database connection using the parameters taken from
two `NULL`-terminated arrays. The first, `keywords`, is defined as an array of
strings, each one being a key word. The second, `values`, gives the value for
each key word. Unlike [`PQsetdbLogin`](libpq-connect.html#LIBPQ-PQSETDBLOGIN)
below, the parameter set can be extended without changing the function
signature, so use of this function (or its nonblocking analogs
[`PQconnectStartParams`](libpq-connect.html#LIBPQ-PQCONNECTSTARTPARAMS) and
`PQconnectPoll`) is preferred for new application programming.

The currently recognized parameter key words are listed in [Section
34.1.2](libpq-connect.html#LIBPQ-PARAMKEYWORDS "34.1.2. Parameter Key Words").

The passed arrays can be empty to use all default parameters, or can contain
one or more parameter settings. They must be matched in length. Processing
will stop at the first `NULL` entry in the `keywords` array. Also, if the
`values` entry associated with a non-`NULL` `keywords` entry is `NULL` or an
empty string, that entry is ignored and processing continues with the next
pair of array entries.

When `expand_dbname` is non-zero, the value for the first _`dbname`_ key word
is checked to see if it is a _connection string_. If so, it is “expanded” into
the individual connection parameters extracted from the string. The value is
considered to be a connection string, rather than just a database name, if it
contains an equal sign (`=`) or it begins with a URI scheme designator. (More
details on connection string formats appear in [Section 34.1.1](libpq-
connect.html#LIBPQ-CONNSTRING "34.1.1. Connection Strings").) Only the first
occurrence of _`dbname`_ is treated in this way; any subsequent _`dbname`_
parameter is processed as a plain database name.

In general the parameter arrays are processed from start to end. If any key
word is repeated, the last value (that is not `NULL` or empty) is used. This
rule applies in particular when a key word found in a connection string
conflicts with one appearing in the `keywords` array. Thus, the programmer may
determine whether array entries can override or be overridden by values taken
from a connection string. Array entries appearing before an expanded
_`dbname`_ entry can be overridden by fields of the connection string, and in
turn those fields are overridden by array entries appearing after _`dbname`_
(but, again, only if those entries supply non-empty values).

After processing all the array entries and any expanded connection string, any
connection parameters that remain unset are filled with default values. If an
unset parameter's corresponding environment variable (see [Section
34.15](libpq-envars.html "34.15. Environment Variables")) is set, its value is
used. If the environment variable is not set either, then the parameter's
built-in default value is used.

`PQconnectdb` #

    

Makes a new connection to the database server.

    
    
    PGconn *PQconnectdb(const char *conninfo);
    

This function opens a new database connection using the parameters taken from
the string `conninfo`.

The passed string can be empty to use all default parameters, or it can
contain one or more parameter settings separated by whitespace, or it can
contain a URI. See [Section 34.1.1](libpq-connect.html#LIBPQ-CONNSTRING
"34.1.1. Connection Strings") for details.

`PQsetdbLogin` #

    

Makes a new connection to the database server.

    
    
    PGconn *PQsetdbLogin(const char *pghost,
                         const char *pgport,
                         const char *pgoptions,
                         const char *pgtty,
                         const char *dbName,
                         const char *login,
                         const char *pwd);
    

This is the predecessor of [`PQconnectdb`](libpq-connect.html#LIBPQ-
PQCONNECTDB) with a fixed set of parameters. It has the same functionality
except that the missing parameters will always take on default values. Write
`NULL` or an empty string for any one of the fixed parameters that is to be
defaulted.

If the _`dbName`_ contains an `=` sign or has a valid connection URI prefix,
it is taken as a _`conninfo`_ string in exactly the same way as if it had been
passed to [`PQconnectdb`](libpq-connect.html#LIBPQ-PQCONNECTDB), and the
remaining parameters are then applied as specified for
[`PQconnectdbParams`](libpq-connect.html#LIBPQ-PQCONNECTDBPARAMS).

`pgtty` is no longer used and any value passed will be ignored.

`PQsetdb` #

    

Makes a new connection to the database server.

    
    
    PGconn *PQsetdb(char *pghost,
                    char *pgport,
                    char *pgoptions,
                    char *pgtty,
                    char *dbName);
    

This is a macro that calls [`PQsetdbLogin`](libpq-connect.html#LIBPQ-
PQSETDBLOGIN) with null pointers for the _`login`_ and _`pwd`_ parameters. It
is provided for backward compatibility with very old programs.

`PQconnectStartParams`  
`PQconnectStart`  
`PQconnectPoll` #

    

Make a connection to the database server in a nonblocking manner.

    
    
    PGconn *PQconnectStartParams(const char * const *keywords,
                                 const char * const *values,
                                 int expand_dbname);
    
    PGconn *PQconnectStart(const char *conninfo);
    
    PostgresPollingStatusType PQconnectPoll(PGconn *conn);
    

These three functions are used to open a connection to a database server such
that your application's thread of execution is not blocked on remote I/O
whilst doing so. The point of this approach is that the waits for I/O to
complete can occur in the application's main loop, rather than down inside
[`PQconnectdbParams`](libpq-connect.html#LIBPQ-PQCONNECTDBPARAMS) or
[`PQconnectdb`](libpq-connect.html#LIBPQ-PQCONNECTDB), and so the application
can manage this operation in parallel with other activities.

With [`PQconnectStartParams`](libpq-connect.html#LIBPQ-PQCONNECTSTARTPARAMS),
the database connection is made using the parameters taken from the `keywords`
and `values` arrays, and controlled by `expand_dbname`, as described above for
[`PQconnectdbParams`](libpq-connect.html#LIBPQ-PQCONNECTDBPARAMS).

With `PQconnectStart`, the database connection is made using the parameters
taken from the string `conninfo` as described above for [`PQconnectdb`](libpq-
connect.html#LIBPQ-PQCONNECTDB).

Neither [`PQconnectStartParams`](libpq-connect.html#LIBPQ-
PQCONNECTSTARTPARAMS) nor `PQconnectStart` nor `PQconnectPoll` will block, so
long as a number of restrictions are met:

  * The `hostaddr` parameter must be used appropriately to prevent DNS queries from being made. See the documentation of this parameter in [Section 34.1.2](libpq-connect.html#LIBPQ-PARAMKEYWORDS "34.1.2. Parameter Key Words") for details.

  * If you call [`PQtrace`](libpq-control.html#LIBPQ-PQTRACE), ensure that the stream object into which you trace will not block.

  * You must ensure that the socket is in the appropriate state before calling `PQconnectPoll`, as described below.

To begin a nonblocking connection request, call `PQconnectStart` or
[`PQconnectStartParams`](libpq-connect.html#LIBPQ-PQCONNECTSTARTPARAMS). If
the result is null, then libpq has been unable to allocate a new `PGconn`
structure. Otherwise, a valid `PGconn` pointer is returned (though not yet
representing a valid connection to the database). Next call `PQstatus(conn)`.
If the result is `CONNECTION_BAD`, the connection attempt has already failed,
typically because of invalid connection parameters.

If `PQconnectStart` or [`PQconnectStartParams`](libpq-connect.html#LIBPQ-
PQCONNECTSTARTPARAMS) succeeds, the next stage is to poll libpq so that it can
proceed with the connection sequence. Use `PQsocket(conn)` to obtain the
descriptor of the socket underlying the database connection. (Caution: do not
assume that the socket remains the same across `PQconnectPoll` calls.) Loop
thus: If `PQconnectPoll(conn)` last returned `PGRES_POLLING_READING`, wait
until the socket is ready to read (as indicated by `select()`, `poll()`, or
similar system function). Then call `PQconnectPoll(conn)` again. Conversely,
if `PQconnectPoll(conn)` last returned `PGRES_POLLING_WRITING`, wait until the
socket is ready to write, then call `PQconnectPoll(conn)` again. On the first
iteration, i.e., if you have yet to call `PQconnectPoll`, behave as if it last
returned `PGRES_POLLING_WRITING`. Continue this loop until
`PQconnectPoll(conn)` returns `PGRES_POLLING_FAILED`, indicating the
connection procedure has failed, or `PGRES_POLLING_OK`, indicating the
connection has been successfully made.

At any time during connection, the status of the connection can be checked by
calling [`PQstatus`](libpq-status.html#LIBPQ-PQSTATUS). If this call returns
`CONNECTION_BAD`, then the connection procedure has failed; if the call
returns `CONNECTION_OK`, then the connection is ready. Both of these states
are equally detectable from the return value of `PQconnectPoll`, described
above. Other states might also occur during (and only during) an asynchronous
connection procedure. These indicate the current stage of the connection
procedure and might be useful to provide feedback to the user for example.
These statuses are:

`CONNECTION_STARTED` #

    

Waiting for connection to be made.

`CONNECTION_MADE` #

    

Connection OK; waiting to send.

`CONNECTION_AWAITING_RESPONSE` #

    

Waiting for a response from the server.

`CONNECTION_AUTH_OK` #

    

Received authentication; waiting for backend start-up to finish.

`CONNECTION_SSL_STARTUP` #

    

Negotiating SSL encryption.

`CONNECTION_SETENV` #

    

Negotiating environment-driven parameter settings.

`CONNECTION_CHECK_WRITABLE` #

    

Checking if connection is able to handle write transactions.

`CONNECTION_CONSUME` #

    

Consuming any remaining response messages on connection.

Note that, although these constants will remain (in order to maintain
compatibility), an application should never rely upon these occurring in a
particular order, or at all, or on the status always being one of these
documented values. An application might do something like this:

    
    
    switch(PQstatus(conn))
    {
            case CONNECTION_STARTED:
                feedback = "Connecting...";
                break;
    
            case CONNECTION_MADE:
                feedback = "Connected to server...";
                break;
    .
    .
    .
            default:
                feedback = "Connecting...";
    }
    

The `connect_timeout` connection parameter is ignored when using
`PQconnectPoll`; it is the application's responsibility to decide whether an
excessive amount of time has elapsed. Otherwise, `PQconnectStart` followed by
a `PQconnectPoll` loop is equivalent to [`PQconnectdb`](libpq-
connect.html#LIBPQ-PQCONNECTDB).

Note that when `PQconnectStart` or [`PQconnectStartParams`](libpq-
connect.html#LIBPQ-PQCONNECTSTARTPARAMS) returns a non-null pointer, you must
call [`PQfinish`](libpq-connect.html#LIBPQ-PQFINISH) when you are finished
with it, in order to dispose of the structure and any associated memory
blocks. This must be done even if the connection attempt fails or is
abandoned.

`PQconndefaults` #

    

Returns the default connection options.

    
    
    PQconninfoOption *PQconndefaults(void);
    
    typedef struct
    {
        char   *keyword;   /* The keyword of the option */
        char   *envvar;    /* Fallback environment variable name */
        char   *compiled;  /* Fallback compiled in default value */
        char   *val;       /* Option's current value, or NULL */
        char   *label;     /* Label for field in connect dialog */
        char   *dispchar;  /* Indicates how to display this field
                              in a connect dialog. Values are:
                              ""        Display entered value as is
                              "*"       Password field - hide value
                              "D"       Debug option - don't show by default */
        int     dispsize;  /* Field size in characters for dialog */
    } PQconninfoOption;
    

Returns a connection options array. This can be used to determine all possible
[`PQconnectdb`](libpq-connect.html#LIBPQ-PQCONNECTDB) options and their
current default values. The return value points to an array of
`PQconninfoOption` structures, which ends with an entry having a null
`keyword` pointer. The null pointer is returned if memory could not be
allocated. Note that the current default values (`val` fields) will depend on
environment variables and other context. A missing or invalid service file
will be silently ignored. Callers must treat the connection options data as
read-only.

After processing the options array, free it by passing it to
[`PQconninfoFree`](libpq-misc.html#LIBPQ-PQCONNINFOFREE). If this is not done,
a small amount of memory is leaked for each call to [`PQconndefaults`](libpq-
connect.html#LIBPQ-PQCONNDEFAULTS).

`PQconninfo` #

    

Returns the connection options used by a live connection.

    
    
    PQconninfoOption *PQconninfo(PGconn *conn);
    

Returns a connection options array. This can be used to determine all possible
[`PQconnectdb`](libpq-connect.html#LIBPQ-PQCONNECTDB) options and the values
that were used to connect to the server. The return value points to an array
of `PQconninfoOption` structures, which ends with an entry having a null
`keyword` pointer. All notes above for [`PQconndefaults`](libpq-
connect.html#LIBPQ-PQCONNDEFAULTS) also apply to the result of
[`PQconninfo`](libpq-connect.html#LIBPQ-PQCONNINFO).

`PQconninfoParse` #

    

Returns parsed connection options from the provided connection string.

    
    
    PQconninfoOption *PQconninfoParse(const char *conninfo, char **errmsg);
    

Parses a connection string and returns the resulting options as an array; or
returns `NULL` if there is a problem with the connection string. This function
can be used to extract the [`PQconnectdb`](libpq-connect.html#LIBPQ-
PQCONNECTDB) options in the provided connection string. The return value
points to an array of `PQconninfoOption` structures, which ends with an entry
having a null `keyword` pointer.

All legal options will be present in the result array, but the
`PQconninfoOption` for any option not present in the connection string will
have `val` set to `NULL`; default values are not inserted.

If `errmsg` is not `NULL`, then `*errmsg` is set to `NULL` on success, else to
a `malloc`'d error string explaining the problem. (It is also possible for
`*errmsg` to be set to `NULL` and the function to return `NULL`; this
indicates an out-of-memory condition.)

After processing the options array, free it by passing it to
[`PQconninfoFree`](libpq-misc.html#LIBPQ-PQCONNINFOFREE). If this is not done,
some memory is leaked for each call to [`PQconninfoParse`](libpq-
connect.html#LIBPQ-PQCONNINFOPARSE). Conversely, if an error occurs and
`errmsg` is not `NULL`, be sure to free the error string using
[`PQfreemem`](libpq-misc.html#LIBPQ-PQFREEMEM).

`PQfinish` #

    

Closes the connection to the server. Also frees memory used by the `PGconn`
object.

    
    
    void PQfinish(PGconn *conn);
    

Note that even if the server connection attempt fails (as indicated by
[`PQstatus`](libpq-status.html#LIBPQ-PQSTATUS)), the application should call
[`PQfinish`](libpq-connect.html#LIBPQ-PQFINISH) to free the memory used by the
`PGconn` object. The `PGconn` pointer must not be used again after
[`PQfinish`](libpq-connect.html#LIBPQ-PQFINISH) has been called.

`PQreset` #

    

Resets the communication channel to the server.

    
    
    void PQreset(PGconn *conn);
    

This function will close the connection to the server and attempt to establish
a new connection, using all the same parameters previously used. This might be
useful for error recovery if a working connection is lost.

`PQresetStart`  
`PQresetPoll` #

    

Reset the communication channel to the server, in a nonblocking manner.

    
    
    int PQresetStart(PGconn *conn);
    
    PostgresPollingStatusType PQresetPoll(PGconn *conn);
    

These functions will close the connection to the server and attempt to
establish a new connection, using all the same parameters previously used.
This can be useful for error recovery if a working connection is lost. They
differ from [`PQreset`](libpq-connect.html#LIBPQ-PQRESET) (above) in that they
act in a nonblocking manner. These functions suffer from the same restrictions
as [`PQconnectStartParams`](libpq-connect.html#LIBPQ-PQCONNECTSTARTPARAMS),
`PQconnectStart` and `PQconnectPoll`.

To initiate a connection reset, call [`PQresetStart`](libpq-
connect.html#LIBPQ-PQRESETSTART). If it returns 0, the reset has failed. If it
returns 1, poll the reset using `PQresetPoll` in exactly the same way as you
would create the connection using `PQconnectPoll`.

`PQpingParams` #

    

[`PQpingParams`](libpq-connect.html#LIBPQ-PQPINGPARAMS) reports the status of
the server. It accepts connection parameters identical to those of
[`PQconnectdbParams`](libpq-connect.html#LIBPQ-PQCONNECTDBPARAMS), described
above. It is not necessary to supply correct user name, password, or database
name values to obtain the server status; however, if incorrect values are
provided, the server will log a failed connection attempt.

    
    
    PGPing PQpingParams(const char * const *keywords,
                        const char * const *values,
                        int expand_dbname);
    

The function returns one of the following values:

`PQPING_OK` #

    

The server is running and appears to be accepting connections.

`PQPING_REJECT` #

    

The server is running but is in a state that disallows connections (startup,
shutdown, or crash recovery).

`PQPING_NO_RESPONSE` #

    

The server could not be contacted. This might indicate that the server is not
running, or that there is something wrong with the given connection parameters
(for example, wrong port number), or that there is a network connectivity
problem (for example, a firewall blocking the connection request).

`PQPING_NO_ATTEMPT` #

    

No attempt was made to contact the server, because the supplied parameters
were obviously incorrect or there was some client-side problem (for example,
out of memory).

`PQping` #

    

[`PQping`](libpq-connect.html#LIBPQ-PQPING) reports the status of the server.
It accepts connection parameters identical to those of [`PQconnectdb`](libpq-
connect.html#LIBPQ-PQCONNECTDB), described above. It is not necessary to
supply correct user name, password, or database name values to obtain the
server status; however, if incorrect values are provided, the server will log
a failed connection attempt.

    
    
    PGPing PQping(const char *conninfo);
    

The return values are the same as for [`PQpingParams`](libpq-
connect.html#LIBPQ-PQPINGPARAMS).

`PQsetSSLKeyPassHook_OpenSSL` #

    

`PQsetSSLKeyPassHook_OpenSSL` lets an application override libpq's [default
handling of encrypted client certificate key files](libpq-ssl.html#LIBPQ-SSL-
CLIENTCERT "34.19.2. Client Certificates") using [sslpassword](libpq-
connect.html#LIBPQ-CONNECT-SSLPASSWORD) or interactive prompting.

    
    
    void PQsetSSLKeyPassHook_OpenSSL(PQsslKeyPassHook_OpenSSL_type hook);
    

The application passes a pointer to a callback function with signature:

    
    
    int callback_fn(char *buf, int size, PGconn *conn);
    

which libpq will then call _instead of_ its default
`PQdefaultSSLKeyPassHook_OpenSSL` handler. The callback should determine the
password for the key and copy it to result-buffer _`buf`_ of size _`size`_.
The string in _`buf`_ must be null-terminated. The callback must return the
length of the password stored in _`buf`_ excluding the null terminator. On
failure, the callback should set `buf[0] = '\0'` and return 0. See
`PQdefaultSSLKeyPassHook_OpenSSL` in libpq's source code for an example.

If the user specified an explicit key location, its path will be in
`conn->sslkey` when the callback is invoked. This will be empty if the default
key path is being used. For keys that are engine specifiers, it is up to
engine implementations whether they use the OpenSSL password callback or
define their own handling.

The app callback may choose to delegate unhandled cases to
`PQdefaultSSLKeyPassHook_OpenSSL`, or call it first and try something else if
it returns 0, or completely override it.

The callback _must not_ escape normal flow control with exceptions,
`longjmp(...)`, etc. It must return normally.

`PQgetSSLKeyPassHook_OpenSSL` #

    

`PQgetSSLKeyPassHook_OpenSSL` returns the current client certificate key
password hook, or `NULL` if none has been set.

    
    
    PQsslKeyPassHook_OpenSSL_type PQgetSSLKeyPassHook_OpenSSL(void);
    

### 34.1.1. Connection Strings #

Several libpq functions parse a user-specified string to obtain connection
parameters. There are two accepted formats for these strings: plain
keyword/value strings and URIs. URIs generally follow [RFC
3986](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc3986), except that multi-host
connection strings are allowed as further described below.

#### 34.1.1.1. Keyword/Value Connection Strings #

In the keyword/value format, each parameter setting is in the form _`keyword`_
`=` _`value`_ , with space(s) between settings. Spaces around a setting's
equal sign are optional. To write an empty value, or a value containing
spaces, surround it with single quotes, for example `keyword = 'a value'`.
Single quotes and backslashes within a value must be escaped with a backslash,
i.e., `\'` and `\\`.

Example:

    
    
    host=localhost port=5432 dbname=mydb connect_timeout=10
    

The recognized parameter key words are listed in [Section 34.1.2](libpq-
connect.html#LIBPQ-PARAMKEYWORDS "34.1.2. Parameter Key Words").

#### 34.1.1.2. Connection URIs #

The general form for a connection URI is:

    
    
    postgresql://[_userspec_ @][_hostspec_][/_dbname_][?_paramspec_]
    
    where _userspec_ is:
    
    _user_[:_password_]
    
    and _hostspec_ is:
    
    [_host_][:_port_][,...]
    
    and _paramspec_ is:
    
    _name_ =_value_[&...]
    

The URI scheme designator can be either `postgresql://` or `postgres://`. Each
of the remaining URI parts is optional. The following examples illustrate
valid URI syntax:

    
    
    postgresql://
    postgresql://localhost
    postgresql://localhost:5433
    postgresql://localhost/mydb
    postgresql://user@localhost
    postgresql://user:secret@localhost
    postgresql://other@localhost/otherdb?connect_timeout=10&application_name=myapp
    postgresql://host1:123,host2:456/somedb?target_session_attrs=any&application_name=myapp
    

Values that would normally appear in the hierarchical part of the URI can
alternatively be given as named parameters. For example:

    
    
    postgresql:///mydb?host=localhost&port=5433
    

All named parameters must match key words listed in [Section 34.1.2](libpq-
connect.html#LIBPQ-PARAMKEYWORDS "34.1.2. Parameter Key Words"), except that
for compatibility with JDBC connection URIs, instances of `ssl=true` are
translated into `sslmode=require`.

The connection URI needs to be encoded with [percent-
encoding](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc3986#section-2.1) if it
includes symbols with special meaning in any of its parts. Here is an example
where the equal sign (`=`) is replaced with `%3D` and the space character with
`%20`:

    
    
    postgresql://user@localhost:5433/mydb?options=-c%20synchronous_commit%3Doff
    

The host part may be either a host name or an IP address. To specify an IPv6
address, enclose it in square brackets:

    
    
    postgresql://[2001:db8::1234]/database
    

The host part is interpreted as described for the parameter [host](libpq-
connect.html#LIBPQ-CONNECT-HOST). In particular, a Unix-domain socket
connection is chosen if the host part is either empty or looks like an
absolute path name, otherwise a TCP/IP connection is initiated. Note, however,
that the slash is a reserved character in the hierarchical part of the URI.
So, to specify a non-standard Unix-domain socket directory, either omit the
host part of the URI and specify the host as a named parameter, or percent-
encode the path in the host part of the URI:

    
    
    postgresql:///dbname?host=/var/lib/postgresql
    postgresql://%2Fvar%2Flib%2Fpostgresql/dbname
    

It is possible to specify multiple host components, each with an optional port
component, in a single URI. A URI of the form
`postgresql://host1:port1,host2:port2,host3:port3/` is equivalent to a
connection string of the form `host=host1,host2,host3 port=port1,port2,port3`.
As further described below, each host will be tried in turn until a connection
is successfully established.

#### 34.1.1.3. Specifying Multiple Hosts #

It is possible to specify multiple hosts to connect to, so that they are tried
in the given order. In the Keyword/Value format, the `host`, `hostaddr`, and
`port` options accept comma-separated lists of values. The same number of
elements must be given in each option that is specified, such that e.g., the
first `hostaddr` corresponds to the first host name, the second `hostaddr`
corresponds to the second host name, and so forth. As an exception, if only
one `port` is specified, it applies to all the hosts.

In the connection URI format, you can list multiple `host:port` pairs
separated by commas in the `host` component of the URI.

In either format, a single host name can translate to multiple network
addresses. A common example of this is a host that has both an IPv4 and an
IPv6 address.

When multiple hosts are specified, or when a single host name is translated to
multiple addresses, all the hosts and addresses will be tried in order, until
one succeeds. If none of the hosts can be reached, the connection fails. If a
connection is established successfully, but authentication fails, the
remaining hosts in the list are not tried.

If a password file is used, you can have different passwords for different
hosts. All the other connection options are the same for every host in the
list; it is not possible to e.g., specify different usernames for different
hosts.

### 34.1.2. Parameter Key Words #

The currently recognized parameter key words are:

`host` #

    

Name of host to connect to. If a host name looks like an absolute path name,
it specifies Unix-domain communication rather than TCP/IP communication; the
value is the name of the directory in which the socket file is stored. (On
Unix, an absolute path name begins with a slash. On Windows, paths starting
with drive letters are also recognized.) If the host name starts with `@`, it
is taken as a Unix-domain socket in the abstract namespace (currently
supported on Linux and Windows). The default behavior when `host` is not
specified, or is empty, is to connect to a Unix-domain socket in `/tmp` (or
whatever socket directory was specified when PostgreSQL was built). On
Windows, the default is to connect to `localhost`.

A comma-separated list of host names is also accepted, in which case each host
name in the list is tried in order; an empty item in the list selects the
default behavior as explained above. See [Section 34.1.1.3](libpq-
connect.html#LIBPQ-MULTIPLE-HOSTS "34.1.1.3. Specifying Multiple Hosts") for
details.

`hostaddr` #

    

Numeric IP address of host to connect to. This should be in the standard IPv4
address format, e.g., `172.28.40.9`. If your machine supports IPv6, you can
also use those addresses. TCP/IP communication is always used when a nonempty
string is specified for this parameter. If this parameter is not specified,
the value of `host` will be looked up to find the corresponding IP address —
or, if `host` specifies an IP address, that value will be used directly.

Using `hostaddr` allows the application to avoid a host name look-up, which
might be important in applications with time constraints. However, a host name
is required for GSSAPI or SSPI authentication methods, as well as for `verify-
full` SSL certificate verification. The following rules are used:

  * If `host` is specified without `hostaddr`, a host name lookup occurs. (When using `PQconnectPoll`, the lookup occurs when `PQconnectPoll` first considers this host name, and it may cause `PQconnectPoll` to block for a significant amount of time.)

  * If `hostaddr` is specified without `host`, the value for `hostaddr` gives the server network address. The connection attempt will fail if the authentication method requires a host name.

  * If both `host` and `hostaddr` are specified, the value for `hostaddr` gives the server network address. The value for `host` is ignored unless the authentication method requires it, in which case it will be used as the host name.

Note that authentication is likely to fail if `host` is not the name of the
server at network address `hostaddr`. Also, when both `host` and `hostaddr`
are specified, `host` is used to identify the connection in a password file
(see [Section 34.16](libpq-pgpass.html "34.16. The Password File")).

A comma-separated list of `hostaddr` values is also accepted, in which case
each host in the list is tried in order. An empty item in the list causes the
corresponding host name to be used, or the default host name if that is empty
as well. See [Section 34.1.1.3](libpq-connect.html#LIBPQ-MULTIPLE-HOSTS
"34.1.1.3. Specifying Multiple Hosts") for details.

Without either a host name or host address, libpq will connect using a local
Unix-domain socket; or on Windows, it will attempt to connect to `localhost`.

`port` #

    

Port number to connect to at the server host, or socket file name extension
for Unix-domain connections. If multiple hosts were given in the `host` or
`hostaddr` parameters, this parameter may specify a comma-separated list of
ports of the same length as the host list, or it may specify a single port
number to be used for all hosts. An empty string, or an empty item in a comma-
separated list, specifies the default port number established when PostgreSQL
was built.

`dbname` #

    

The database name. Defaults to be the same as the user name. In certain
contexts, the value is checked for extended formats; see [Section
34.1.1](libpq-connect.html#LIBPQ-CONNSTRING "34.1.1. Connection Strings") for
more details on those.

`user` #

    

PostgreSQL user name to connect as. Defaults to be the same as the operating
system name of the user running the application.

`password` #

    

Password to be used if the server demands password authentication.

`passfile` #

    

Specifies the name of the file used to store passwords (see [Section
34.16](libpq-pgpass.html "34.16. The Password File")). Defaults to
`~/.pgpass`, or `%APPDATA%\postgresql\pgpass.conf` on Microsoft Windows. (No
error is reported if this file does not exist.)

`require_auth` #

    

Specifies the authentication method that the client requires from the server.
If the server does not use the required method to authenticate the client, or
if the authentication handshake is not fully completed by the server, the
connection will fail. A comma-separated list of methods may also be provided,
of which the server must use exactly one in order for the connection to
succeed. By default, any authentication method is accepted, and the server is
free to skip authentication altogether.

Methods may be negated with the addition of a `!` prefix, in which case the
server must _not_ attempt the listed method; any other method is accepted, and
the server is free not to authenticate the client at all. If a comma-separated
list is provided, the server may not attempt _any_ of the listed negated
methods. Negated and non-negated forms may not be combined in the same
setting.

As a final special case, the `none` method requires the server not to use an
authentication challenge. (It may also be negated, to require some form of
authentication.)

The following methods may be specified:

`password`

    

The server must request plaintext password authentication.

`md5`

    

The server must request MD5 hashed password authentication.

`gss`

    

The server must either request a Kerberos handshake via GSSAPI or establish a
GSS-encrypted channel (see also [gssencmode](libpq-connect.html#LIBPQ-CONNECT-
GSSENCMODE)).

`sspi`

    

The server must request Windows SSPI authentication.

`scram-sha-256`

    

The server must successfully complete a SCRAM-SHA-256 authentication exchange
with the client.

`none`

    

The server must not prompt the client for an authentication exchange. (This
does not prohibit client certificate authentication via TLS, nor GSS
authentication via its encrypted transport.)

`channel_binding` #

    

This option controls the client's use of channel binding. A setting of
`require` means that the connection must employ channel binding, `prefer`
means that the client will choose channel binding if available, and `disable`
prevents the use of channel binding. The default is `prefer` if PostgreSQL is
compiled with SSL support; otherwise the default is `disable`.

Channel binding is a method for the server to authenticate itself to the
client. It is only supported over SSL connections with PostgreSQL 11 or later
servers using the `SCRAM` authentication method.

`connect_timeout` #

    

Maximum time to wait while connecting, in seconds (write as a decimal integer,
e.g., `10`). Zero, negative, or not specified means wait indefinitely. The
minimum allowed timeout is 2 seconds, therefore a value of `1` is interpreted
as `2`. This timeout applies separately to each host name or IP address. For
example, if you specify two hosts and `connect_timeout` is 5, each host will
time out if no connection is made within 5 seconds, so the total time spent
waiting for a connection might be up to 10 seconds.

`client_encoding` #

    

This sets the `client_encoding` configuration parameter for this connection.
In addition to the values accepted by the corresponding server option, you can
use `auto` to determine the right encoding from the current locale in the
client (`LC_CTYPE` environment variable on Unix systems).

`options` #

    

Specifies command-line options to send to the server at connection start. For
example, setting this to `-c geqo=off` sets the session's value of the `geqo`
parameter to `off`. Spaces within this string are considered to separate
command-line arguments, unless escaped with a backslash (`\`); write `\\` to
represent a literal backslash. For a detailed discussion of the available
options, consult [Chapter 20](runtime-config.html "Chapter 20. Server
Configuration").

`application_name` #

    

Specifies a value for the [application_name](runtime-config-logging.html#GUC-
APPLICATION-NAME) configuration parameter.

`fallback_application_name` #

    

Specifies a fallback value for the [application_name](runtime-config-
logging.html#GUC-APPLICATION-NAME) configuration parameter. This value will be
used if no value has been given for `application_name` via a connection
parameter or the `PGAPPNAME` environment variable. Specifying a fallback name
is useful in generic utility programs that wish to set a default application
name but allow it to be overridden by the user.

`keepalives` #

    

Controls whether client-side TCP keepalives are used. The default value is 1,
meaning on, but you can change this to 0, meaning off, if keepalives are not
wanted. This parameter is ignored for connections made via a Unix-domain
socket.

`keepalives_idle` #

    

Controls the number of seconds of inactivity after which TCP should send a
keepalive message to the server. A value of zero uses the system default. This
parameter is ignored for connections made via a Unix-domain socket, or if
keepalives are disabled. It is only supported on systems where `TCP_KEEPIDLE`
or an equivalent socket option is available, and on Windows; on other systems,
it has no effect.

`keepalives_interval` #

    

Controls the number of seconds after which a TCP keepalive message that is not
acknowledged by the server should be retransmitted. A value of zero uses the
system default. This parameter is ignored for connections made via a Unix-
domain socket, or if keepalives are disabled. It is only supported on systems
where `TCP_KEEPINTVL` or an equivalent socket option is available, and on
Windows; on other systems, it has no effect.

`keepalives_count` #

    

Controls the number of TCP keepalives that can be lost before the client's
connection to the server is considered dead. A value of zero uses the system
default. This parameter is ignored for connections made via a Unix-domain
socket, or if keepalives are disabled. It is only supported on systems where
`TCP_KEEPCNT` or an equivalent socket option is available; on other systems,
it has no effect.

`tcp_user_timeout` #

    

Controls the number of milliseconds that transmitted data may remain
unacknowledged before a connection is forcibly closed. A value of zero uses
the system default. This parameter is ignored for connections made via a Unix-
domain socket. It is only supported on systems where `TCP_USER_TIMEOUT` is
available; on other systems, it has no effect.

`replication` #

    

This option determines whether the connection should use the replication
protocol instead of the normal protocol. This is what PostgreSQL replication
connections as well as tools such as pg_basebackup use internally, but it can
also be used by third-party applications. For a description of the replication
protocol, consult [Section 55.4](protocol-replication.html "55.4. Streaming
Replication Protocol").

The following values, which are case-insensitive, are supported:

`true`, `on`, `yes`, `1`

    

The connection goes into physical replication mode.

`database`

    

The connection goes into logical replication mode, connecting to the database
specified in the `dbname` parameter.

`false`, `off`, `no`, `0`

    

The connection is a regular one, which is the default behavior.

In physical or logical replication mode, only the simple query protocol can be
used.

`gssencmode` #

    

This option determines whether or with what priority a secure GSS TCP/IP
connection will be negotiated with the server. There are three modes:

`disable`

    

only try a non-GSSAPI-encrypted connection

`prefer` (default)

    

if there are GSSAPI credentials present (i.e., in a credentials cache), first
try a GSSAPI-encrypted connection; if that fails or there are no credentials,
try a non-GSSAPI-encrypted connection. This is the default when PostgreSQL has
been compiled with GSSAPI support.

`require`

    

only try a GSSAPI-encrypted connection

`gssencmode` is ignored for Unix domain socket communication. If PostgreSQL is
compiled without GSSAPI support, using the `require` option will cause an
error, while `prefer` will be accepted but libpq will not actually attempt a
GSSAPI-encrypted connection.

`sslmode` #

    

This option determines whether or with what priority a secure SSL TCP/IP
connection will be negotiated with the server. There are six modes:

`disable`

    

only try a non-SSL connection

`allow`

    

first try a non-SSL connection; if that fails, try an SSL connection

`prefer` (default)

    

first try an SSL connection; if that fails, try a non-SSL connection

`require`

    

only try an SSL connection. If a root CA file is present, verify the
certificate in the same way as if `verify-ca` was specified

`verify-ca`

    

only try an SSL connection, and verify that the server certificate is issued
by a trusted certificate authority (CA)

`verify-full`

    

only try an SSL connection, verify that the server certificate is issued by a
trusted CA and that the requested server host name matches that in the
certificate

See [Section 34.19](libpq-ssl.html "34.19. SSL Support") for a detailed
description of how these options work.

`sslmode` is ignored for Unix domain socket communication. If PostgreSQL is
compiled without SSL support, using options `require`, `verify-ca`, or
`verify-full` will cause an error, while options `allow` and `prefer` will be
accepted but libpq will not actually attempt an SSL connection.

Note that if GSSAPI encryption is possible, that will be used in preference to
SSL encryption, regardless of the value of `sslmode`. To force use of SSL
encryption in an environment that has working GSSAPI infrastructure (such as a
Kerberos server), also set `gssencmode` to `disable`.

`requiressl` #

    

This option is deprecated in favor of the `sslmode` setting.

If set to 1, an SSL connection to the server is required (this is equivalent
to `sslmode` `require`). libpq will then refuse to connect if the server does
not accept an SSL connection. If set to 0 (default), libpq will negotiate the
connection type with the server (equivalent to `sslmode` `prefer`). This
option is only available if PostgreSQL is compiled with SSL support.

`sslcompression` #

    

If set to 1, data sent over SSL connections will be compressed. If set to 0,
compression will be disabled. The default is 0. This parameter is ignored if a
connection without SSL is made.

SSL compression is nowadays considered insecure and its use is no longer
recommended. OpenSSL 1.1.0 disables compression by default, and many operating
system distributions disable it in prior versions as well, so setting this
parameter to on will not have any effect if the server does not accept
compression. PostgreSQL 14 disables compression completely in the backend.

If security is not a primary concern, compression can improve throughput if
the network is the bottleneck. Disabling compression can improve response time
and throughput if CPU performance is the limiting factor.

`sslcert` #

    

This parameter specifies the file name of the client SSL certificate,
replacing the default `~/.postgresql/postgresql.crt`. This parameter is
ignored if an SSL connection is not made.

`sslkey` #

    

This parameter specifies the location for the secret key used for the client
certificate. It can either specify a file name that will be used instead of
the default `~/.postgresql/postgresql.key`, or it can specify a key obtained
from an external “engine” (engines are OpenSSL loadable modules). An external
engine specification should consist of a colon-separated engine name and an
engine-specific key identifier. This parameter is ignored if an SSL connection
is not made.

`sslpassword` #

    

This parameter specifies the password for the secret key specified in
`sslkey`, allowing client certificate private keys to be stored in encrypted
form on disk even when interactive passphrase input is not practical.

Specifying this parameter with any non-empty value suppresses the `Enter PEM
pass phrase:` prompt that OpenSSL will emit by default when an encrypted
client certificate key is provided to `libpq`.

If the key is not encrypted this parameter is ignored. The parameter has no
effect on keys specified by OpenSSL engines unless the engine uses the OpenSSL
password callback mechanism for prompts.

There is no environment variable equivalent to this option, and no facility
for looking it up in `.pgpass`. It can be used in a service file connection
definition. Users with more sophisticated uses should consider using OpenSSL
engines and tools like PKCS#11 or USB crypto offload devices.

`sslcertmode` #

    

This option determines whether a client certificate may be sent to the server,
and whether the server is required to request one. There are three modes:

`disable`

    

A client certificate is never sent, even if one is available (default location
or provided via [sslcert](libpq-connect.html#LIBPQ-CONNECT-SSLCERT)).

`allow` (default)

    

A certificate may be sent, if the server requests one and the client has one
to send.

`require`

    

The server _must_ request a certificate. The connection will fail if the
client does not send a certificate and the server successfully authenticates
the client anyway.

### Note

`sslcertmode=require` doesn't add any additional security, since there is no
guarantee that the server is validating the certificate correctly; PostgreSQL
servers generally request TLS certificates from clients whether they validate
them or not. The option may be useful when troubleshooting more complicated
TLS setups.

`sslrootcert` #

    

This parameter specifies the name of a file containing SSL certificate
authority (CA) certificate(s). If the file exists, the server's certificate
will be verified to be signed by one of these authorities. The default is
`~/.postgresql/root.crt`.

The special value `system` may be specified instead, in which case the trusted
CA roots from the SSL implementation will be loaded. The exact locations of
these root certificates differ by SSL implementation and platform. For OpenSSL
in particular, the locations may be further modified by the `SSL_CERT_DIR` and
`SSL_CERT_FILE` environment variables.

### Note

When using `sslrootcert=system`, the default `sslmode` is changed to `verify-
full`, and any weaker setting will result in an error. In most cases it is
trivial for anyone to obtain a certificate trusted by the system for a
hostname they control, rendering `verify-ca` and all weaker modes useless.

The magic `system` value will take precedence over a local certificate file
with the same name. If for some reason you find yourself in this situation,
use an alternative path like `sslrootcert=./system` instead.

`sslcrl` #

    

This parameter specifies the file name of the SSL server certificate
revocation list (CRL). Certificates listed in this file, if it exists, will be
rejected while attempting to authenticate the server's certificate. If neither
[sslcrl](libpq-connect.html#LIBPQ-CONNECT-SSLCRL) nor [sslcrldir](libpq-
connect.html#LIBPQ-CONNECT-SSLCRLDIR) is set, this setting is taken as
`~/.postgresql/root.crl`.

`sslcrldir` #

    

This parameter specifies the directory name of the SSL server certificate
revocation list (CRL). Certificates listed in the files in this directory, if
it exists, will be rejected while attempting to authenticate the server's
certificate.

The directory needs to be prepared with the OpenSSL command `openssl rehash`
or `c_rehash`. See its documentation for details.

Both `sslcrl` and `sslcrldir` can be specified together.

`sslsni` #

    

If set to 1 (default), libpq sets the TLS extension “Server Name Indication”
(SNI) on SSL-enabled connections. By setting this parameter to 0, this is
turned off.

The Server Name Indication can be used by SSL-aware proxies to route
connections without having to decrypt the SSL stream. (Note that this requires
a proxy that is aware of the PostgreSQL protocol handshake, not just any SSL
proxy.) However, SNI makes the destination host name appear in cleartext in
the network traffic, so it might be undesirable in some cases.

`requirepeer` #

    

This parameter specifies the operating-system user name of the server, for
example `requirepeer=postgres`. When making a Unix-domain socket connection,
if this parameter is set, the client checks at the beginning of the connection
that the server process is running under the specified user name; if it is
not, the connection is aborted with an error. This parameter can be used to
provide server authentication similar to that available with SSL certificates
on TCP/IP connections. (Note that if the Unix-domain socket is in `/tmp` or
another publicly writable location, any user could start a server listening
there. Use this parameter to ensure that you are connected to a server run by
a trusted user.) This option is only supported on platforms for which the
`peer` authentication method is implemented; see [Section 21.9](auth-peer.html
"21.9. Peer Authentication").

`ssl_min_protocol_version` #

    

This parameter specifies the minimum SSL/TLS protocol version to allow for the
connection. Valid values are `TLSv1`, `TLSv1.1`, `TLSv1.2` and `TLSv1.3`. The
supported protocols depend on the version of OpenSSL used, older versions not
supporting the most modern protocol versions. If not specified, the default is
`TLSv1.2`, which satisfies industry best practices as of this writing.

`ssl_max_protocol_version` #

    

This parameter specifies the maximum SSL/TLS protocol version to allow for the
connection. Valid values are `TLSv1`, `TLSv1.1`, `TLSv1.2` and `TLSv1.3`. The
supported protocols depend on the version of OpenSSL used, older versions not
supporting the most modern protocol versions. If not set, this parameter is
ignored and the connection will use the maximum bound defined by the backend,
if set. Setting the maximum protocol version is mainly useful for testing or
if some component has issues working with a newer protocol.

`krbsrvname` #

    

Kerberos service name to use when authenticating with GSSAPI. This must match
the service name specified in the server configuration for Kerberos
authentication to succeed. (See also [Section 21.6](gssapi-auth.html
"21.6. GSSAPI Authentication").) The default value is normally `postgres`, but
that can be changed when building PostgreSQL via the `--with-krb-srvnam`
option of configure. In most environments, this parameter never needs to be
changed. Some Kerberos implementations might require a different service name,
such as Microsoft Active Directory which requires the service name to be in
upper case (`POSTGRES`).

`gsslib` #

    

GSS library to use for GSSAPI authentication. Currently this is disregarded
except on Windows builds that include both GSSAPI and SSPI support. In that
case, set this to `gssapi` to cause libpq to use the GSSAPI library for
authentication instead of the default SSPI.

`gssdelegation` #

    

Forward (delegate) GSS credentials to the server. The default is `0` which
means credentials will not be forwarded to the server. Set this to `1` to have
credentials forwarded when possible.

`service` #

    

Service name to use for additional parameters. It specifies a service name in
`pg_service.conf` that holds additional connection parameters. This allows
applications to specify only a service name so connection parameters can be
centrally maintained. See [Section 34.17](libpq-pgservice.html "34.17. The
Connection Service File").

`target_session_attrs` #

    

This option determines whether the session must have certain properties to be
acceptable. It's typically used in combination with multiple host names to
select the first acceptable alternative among several hosts. There are six
modes:

`any` (default)

    

any successful connection is acceptable

`read-write`

    

session must accept read-write transactions by default (that is, the server
must not be in hot standby mode and the `default_transaction_read_only`
parameter must be `off`)

`read-only`

    

session must not accept read-write transactions by default (the converse)

`primary`

    

server must not be in hot standby mode

`standby`

    

server must be in hot standby mode

`prefer-standby`

    

first try to find a standby server, but if none of the listed hosts is a
standby server, try again in `any` mode

`load_balance_hosts` #

    

Controls the order in which the client tries to connect to the available hosts
and addresses. Once a connection attempt is successful no other hosts and
addresses will be tried. This parameter is typically used in combination with
multiple host names or a DNS record that returns multiple IPs. This parameter
can be used in combination with [target_session_attrs](libpq-
connect.html#LIBPQ-CONNECT-TARGET-SESSION-ATTRS) to, for example, load balance
over standby servers only. Once successfully connected, subsequent queries on
the returned connection will all be sent to the same server. There are
currently two modes:

`disable` (default)

    

No load balancing across hosts is performed. Hosts are tried in the order in
which they are provided and addresses are tried in the order they are received
from DNS or a hosts file.

`random`

    

Hosts and addresses are tried in random order. This value is mostly useful
when opening multiple connections at the same time, possibly from different
machines. This way connections can be load balanced across multiple PostgreSQL
servers.

While random load balancing, due to its random nature, will almost never
result in a completely uniform distribution, it statistically gets quite
close. One important aspect here is that this algorithm uses two levels of
random choices: First the hosts will be resolved in random order. Then
secondly, before resolving the next host, all resolved addresses for the
current host will be tried in random order. This behaviour can skew the amount
of connections each node gets greatly in certain cases, for instance when some
hosts resolve to more addresses than others. But such a skew can also be used
on purpose, e.g. to increase the number of connections a larger server gets by
providing its hostname multiple times in the host string.

When using this value it's recommended to also configure a reasonable value
for [connect_timeout](libpq-connect.html#LIBPQ-CONNECT-CONNECT-TIMEOUT).
Because then, if one of the nodes that are used for load balancing is not
responding, a new node will be tried.

* * *

[Prev](libpq.html "Chapter 34. libpq — C Library")  | [Up](libpq.html "Chapter 34. libpq — C Library") |  [Next](libpq-status.html "34.2. Connection Status Functions")  
---|---|---  
Chapter 34. libpq — C Library  | [Home](index.html "PostgreSQL 16.9 Documentation") |  34.2. Connection Status Functions  
  
## Submit correction

If you see anything in the documentation that is not correct, does not match
your experience with the particular feature or requires further clarification,
please use [this form](/account/comments/new/16/libpq-connect.html/) to report
a documentation issue.

[Privacy Policy](/about/privacypolicy) | [Code of Conduct](/about/policies/coc/) | [About PostgreSQL](/about/) | [Contact](/about/contact/)  

Copyright (C) 1996-2025 The PostgreSQL Global Development Group

