[ ![PostgreSQL Elephant Logo](/media/img/about/press/elephant.png) ](/)

  * [Home](/ "Home")
  * [About](/about/ "About")
  * [Download](/download/ "Download")
  * [Documentation](/docs/ "Documentation")
  * [Community](/community/ "Community")
  * [Developers](/developer/ "Developers")
  * [Support](/support/ "Support")
  * [Donate](/about/donate/ "Donate")
  * [Your account](/account/ "Your account")

__

May 8, 2025: [ PostgreSQL 17.5, 16.9, 15.13, 14.18, and 13.21 Released! ](/about/news/postgresql-175-169-1513-1418-and-1321-released-3072/) | [ PostgreSQL 18 Beta 1 Released! ](/about/news/postgresql-18-beta-1-released-3070/)

[Documentation](/docs/ "Documentation") -> [PostgreSQL
16](/docs/16/index.html)

Supported Versions: [Current](/docs/current/logical-replication-
subscription.html "PostgreSQL 17 - 31.2. Subscription")
([17](/docs/17/logical-replication-subscription.html "PostgreSQL 17 -
31.2. Subscription")) / [16](/docs/16/logical-replication-subscription.html
"PostgreSQL 16 - 31.2. Subscription") / [15](/docs/15/logical-replication-
subscription.html "PostgreSQL 15 - 31.2. Subscription") /
[14](/docs/14/logical-replication-subscription.html "PostgreSQL 14 -
31.2. Subscription") / [13](/docs/13/logical-replication-subscription.html
"PostgreSQL 13 - 31.2. Subscription")

Development Versions: [18](/docs/18/logical-replication-subscription.html
"PostgreSQL 18 - 31.2. Subscription") / [devel](/docs/devel/logical-
replication-subscription.html "PostgreSQL devel - 31.2. Subscription")

Unsupported versions: [12](/docs/12/logical-replication-subscription.html
"PostgreSQL 12 - 31.2. Subscription") / [11](/docs/11/logical-replication-
subscription.html "PostgreSQL 11 - 31.2. Subscription") /
[10](/docs/10/logical-replication-subscription.html "PostgreSQL 10 -
31.2. Subscription")

__

31.2. Subscription  
---  
[Prev](logical-replication-publication.html "31.1. Publication")  | [Up](logical-replication.html "Chapter 31. Logical Replication") | Chapter 31. Logical Replication | [Home](index.html "PostgreSQL 16.9 Documentation") |  [Next](logical-replication-row-filter.html "31.3. Row Filters")  
  
* * *

## 31.2. Subscription #

[31.2.1. Replication Slot Management](logical-replication-
subscription.html#LOGICAL-REPLICATION-SUBSCRIPTION-SLOT)

[31.2.2. Examples: Set Up Logical Replication](logical-replication-
subscription.html#LOGICAL-REPLICATION-SUBSCRIPTION-EXAMPLES)

[31.2.3. Examples: Deferred Replication Slot Creation](logical-replication-
subscription.html#LOGICAL-REPLICATION-SUBSCRIPTION-EXAMPLES-DEFERRED-SLOT)

A _subscription_ is the downstream side of logical replication. The node where
a subscription is defined is referred to as the _subscriber_. A subscription
defines the connection to another database and set of publications (one or
more) to which it wants to subscribe.

The subscriber database behaves in the same way as any other PostgreSQL
instance and can be used as a publisher for other databases by defining its
own publications.

A subscriber node may have multiple subscriptions if desired. It is possible
to define multiple subscriptions between a single publisher-subscriber pair,
in which case care must be taken to ensure that the subscribed publication
objects don't overlap.

Each subscription will receive changes via one replication slot (see [Section
27.2.6](warm-standby.html#STREAMING-REPLICATION-SLOTS "27.2.6. Replication
Slots")). Additional replication slots may be required for the initial data
synchronization of pre-existing table data and those will be dropped at the
end of data synchronization.

A logical replication subscription can be a standby for synchronous
replication (see [Section 27.2.8](warm-standby.html#SYNCHRONOUS-REPLICATION
"27.2.8. Synchronous Replication")). The standby name is by default the
subscription name. An alternative name can be specified as `application_name`
in the connection information of the subscription.

Subscriptions are dumped by `pg_dump` if the current user is a superuser.
Otherwise a warning is written and subscriptions are skipped, because non-
superusers cannot read all subscription information from the `pg_subscription`
catalog.

The subscription is added using [`CREATE SUBSCRIPTION`](sql-
createsubscription.html "CREATE SUBSCRIPTION") and can be stopped/resumed at
any time using the [`ALTER SUBSCRIPTION`](sql-altersubscription.html "ALTER
SUBSCRIPTION") command and removed using [`DROP SUBSCRIPTION`](sql-
dropsubscription.html "DROP SUBSCRIPTION").

When a subscription is dropped and recreated, the synchronization information
is lost. This means that the data has to be resynchronized afterwards.

The schema definitions are not replicated, and the published tables must exist
on the subscriber. Only regular tables may be the target of replication. For
example, you can't replicate to a view.

The tables are matched between the publisher and the subscriber using the
fully qualified table name. Replication to differently-named tables on the
subscriber is not supported.

Columns of a table are also matched by name. The order of columns in the
subscriber table does not need to match that of the publisher. The data types
of the columns do not need to match, as long as the text representation of the
data can be converted to the target type. For example, you can replicate from
a column of type `integer` to a column of type `bigint`. The target table can
also have additional columns not provided by the published table. Any such
columns will be filled with the default value as specified in the definition
of the target table. However, logical replication in binary format is more
restrictive. See the [`binary`](sql-createsubscription.html#SQL-
CREATESUBSCRIPTION-WITH-BINARY) option of `CREATE SUBSCRIPTION` for details.

### 31.2.1. Replication Slot Management #

As mentioned earlier, each (active) subscription receives changes from a
replication slot on the remote (publishing) side.

Additional table synchronization slots are normally transient, created
internally to perform initial table synchronization and dropped automatically
when they are no longer needed. These table synchronization slots have
generated names: “`pg_%u_sync_%u_%llu`” (parameters: Subscription _`oid`_ ,
Table _`relid`_ , system identifier _`sysid`_)

Normally, the remote replication slot is created automatically when the
subscription is created using `CREATE SUBSCRIPTION` and it is dropped
automatically when the subscription is dropped using `DROP SUBSCRIPTION`. In
some situations, however, it can be useful or necessary to manipulate the
subscription and the underlying replication slot separately. Here are some
scenarios:

  * When creating a subscription, the replication slot already exists. In that case, the subscription can be created using the `create_slot = false` option to associate with the existing slot.

  * When creating a subscription, the remote host is not reachable or in an unclear state. In that case, the subscription can be created using the `connect = false` option. The remote host will then not be contacted at all. This is what pg_dump uses. The remote replication slot will then have to be created manually before the subscription can be activated.

  * When dropping a subscription, the replication slot should be kept. This could be useful when the subscriber database is being moved to a different host and will be activated from there. In that case, disassociate the slot from the subscription using `ALTER SUBSCRIPTION` before attempting to drop the subscription.

  * When dropping a subscription, the remote host is not reachable. In that case, disassociate the slot from the subscription using `ALTER SUBSCRIPTION` before attempting to drop the subscription. If the remote database instance no longer exists, no further action is then necessary. If, however, the remote database instance is just unreachable, the replication slot (and any still remaining table synchronization slots) should then be dropped manually; otherwise it/they would continue to reserve WAL and might eventually cause the disk to fill up. Such cases should be carefully investigated.

### 31.2.2. Examples: Set Up Logical Replication #

Create some test tables on the publisher.

    
    
    test_pub=# CREATE TABLE t1(a int, b text, PRIMARY KEY(a));
    CREATE TABLE
    test_pub=# CREATE TABLE t2(c int, d text, PRIMARY KEY(c));
    CREATE TABLE
    test_pub=# CREATE TABLE t3(e int, f text, PRIMARY KEY(e));
    CREATE TABLE
    

Create the same tables on the subscriber.

    
    
    test_sub=# CREATE TABLE t1(a int, b text, PRIMARY KEY(a));
    CREATE TABLE
    test_sub=# CREATE TABLE t2(c int, d text, PRIMARY KEY(c));
    CREATE TABLE
    test_sub=# CREATE TABLE t3(e int, f text, PRIMARY KEY(e));
    CREATE TABLE
    

Insert data to the tables at the publisher side.

    
    
    test_pub=# INSERT INTO t1 VALUES (1, 'one'), (2, 'two'), (3, 'three');
    INSERT 0 3
    test_pub=# INSERT INTO t2 VALUES (1, 'A'), (2, 'B'), (3, 'C');
    INSERT 0 3
    test_pub=# INSERT INTO t3 VALUES (1, 'i'), (2, 'ii'), (3, 'iii');
    INSERT 0 3
    

Create publications for the tables. The publications `pub2` and `pub3a`
disallow some [`publish`](sql-createpublication.html#SQL-CREATEPUBLICATION-
WITH-PUBLISH) operations. The publication `pub3b` has a row filter (see
[Section 31.3](logical-replication-row-filter.html "31.3. Row Filters")).

    
    
    test_pub=# CREATE PUBLICATION pub1 FOR TABLE t1;
    CREATE PUBLICATION
    test_pub=# CREATE PUBLICATION pub2 FOR TABLE t2 WITH (publish = 'truncate');
    CREATE PUBLICATION
    test_pub=# CREATE PUBLICATION pub3a FOR TABLE t3 WITH (publish = 'truncate');
    CREATE PUBLICATION
    test_pub=# CREATE PUBLICATION pub3b FOR TABLE t3 WHERE (e > 5);
    CREATE PUBLICATION
    

Create subscriptions for the publications. The subscription `sub3` subscribes
to both `pub3a` and `pub3b`. All subscriptions will copy initial data by
default.

    
    
    test_sub=# CREATE SUBSCRIPTION sub1
    test_sub-# CONNECTION 'host=localhost dbname=test_pub application_name=sub1'
    test_sub-# PUBLICATION pub1;
    CREATE SUBSCRIPTION
    test_sub=# CREATE SUBSCRIPTION sub2
    test_sub-# CONNECTION 'host=localhost dbname=test_pub application_name=sub2'
    test_sub-# PUBLICATION pub2;
    CREATE SUBSCRIPTION
    test_sub=# CREATE SUBSCRIPTION sub3
    test_sub-# CONNECTION 'host=localhost dbname=test_pub application_name=sub3'
    test_sub-# PUBLICATION pub3a, pub3b;
    CREATE SUBSCRIPTION
    

Observe that initial table data is copied, regardless of the `publish`
operation of the publication.

    
    
    test_sub=# SELECT * FROM t1;
     a |   b
    ---+-------
     1 | one
     2 | two
     3 | three
    (3 rows)
    
    test_sub=# SELECT * FROM t2;
     c | d
    ---+---
     1 | A
     2 | B
     3 | C
    (3 rows)
    

Furthermore, because the initial data copy ignores the `publish` operation,
and because publication `pub3a` has no row filter, it means the copied table
`t3` contains all rows even when they do not match the row filter of
publication `pub3b`.

    
    
    test_sub=# SELECT * FROM t3;
     e |  f
    ---+-----
     1 | i
     2 | ii
     3 | iii
    (3 rows)
    

Insert more data to the tables at the publisher side.

    
    
    test_pub=# INSERT INTO t1 VALUES (4, 'four'), (5, 'five'), (6, 'six');
    INSERT 0 3
    test_pub=# INSERT INTO t2 VALUES (4, 'D'), (5, 'E'), (6, 'F');
    INSERT 0 3
    test_pub=# INSERT INTO t3 VALUES (4, 'iv'), (5, 'v'), (6, 'vi');
    INSERT 0 3
    

Now the publisher side data looks like:

    
    
    test_pub=# SELECT * FROM t1;
     a |   b
    ---+-------
     1 | one
     2 | two
     3 | three
     4 | four
     5 | five
     6 | six
    (6 rows)
    
    test_pub=# SELECT * FROM t2;
     c | d
    ---+---
     1 | A
     2 | B
     3 | C
     4 | D
     5 | E
     6 | F
    (6 rows)
    
    test_pub=# SELECT * FROM t3;
     e |  f
    ---+-----
     1 | i
     2 | ii
     3 | iii
     4 | iv
     5 | v
     6 | vi
    (6 rows)
    

Observe that during normal replication the appropriate `publish` operations
are used. This means publications `pub2` and `pub3a` will not replicate the
`INSERT`. Also, publication `pub3b` will only replicate data that matches the
row filter of `pub3b`. Now the subscriber side data looks like:

    
    
    test_sub=# SELECT * FROM t1;
     a |   b
    ---+-------
     1 | one
     2 | two
     3 | three
     4 | four
     5 | five
     6 | six
    (6 rows)
    
    test_sub=# SELECT * FROM t2;
     c | d
    ---+---
     1 | A
     2 | B
     3 | C
    (3 rows)
    
    test_sub=# SELECT * FROM t3;
     e |  f
    ---+-----
     1 | i
     2 | ii
     3 | iii
     6 | vi
    (4 rows)
    

### 31.2.3. Examples: Deferred Replication Slot Creation #

There are some cases (e.g. [Section 31.2.1](logical-replication-
subscription.html#LOGICAL-REPLICATION-SUBSCRIPTION-SLOT "31.2.1. Replication
Slot Management")) where, if the remote replication slot was not created
automatically, the user must create it manually before the subscription can be
activated. The steps to create the slot and activate the subscription are
shown in the following examples. These examples specify the standard logical
decoding output plugin (`pgoutput`), which is what the built-in logical
replication uses.

First, create a publication for the examples to use.

    
    
    test_pub=# CREATE PUBLICATION pub1 FOR ALL TABLES;
    CREATE PUBLICATION
    

Example 1: Where the subscription says `connect = false`

  * Create the subscription.
        
        test_sub=# CREATE SUBSCRIPTION sub1
        test_sub-# CONNECTION 'host=localhost dbname=test_pub'
        test_sub-# PUBLICATION pub1
        test_sub-# WITH (connect=false);
        WARNING:  subscription was created, but is not connected
        HINT:  To initiate replication, you must manually create the replication slot, enable the subscription, and refresh the subscription.
        CREATE SUBSCRIPTION
        

  * On the publisher, manually create a slot. Because the name was not specified during `CREATE SUBSCRIPTION`, the name of the slot to create is same as the subscription name, e.g. "sub1".
        
        test_pub=# SELECT * FROM pg_create_logical_replication_slot('sub1', 'pgoutput');
         slot_name |    lsn
        -----------+-----------
         sub1      | 0/19404D0
        (1 row)
        

  * On the subscriber, complete the activation of the subscription. After this the tables of `pub1` will start replicating.
        
        test_sub=# ALTER SUBSCRIPTION sub1 ENABLE;
        ALTER SUBSCRIPTION
        test_sub=# ALTER SUBSCRIPTION sub1 REFRESH PUBLICATION;
        ALTER SUBSCRIPTION
        

Example 2: Where the subscription says `connect = false`, but also specifies
the [`slot_name`](sql-createsubscription.html#SQL-CREATESUBSCRIPTION-WITH-
SLOT-NAME) option.

  * Create the subscription.
        
        test_sub=# CREATE SUBSCRIPTION sub1
        test_sub-# CONNECTION 'host=localhost dbname=test_pub'
        test_sub-# PUBLICATION pub1
        test_sub-# WITH (connect=false, slot_name='myslot');
        WARNING:  subscription was created, but is not connected
        HINT:  To initiate replication, you must manually create the replication slot, enable the subscription, and refresh the subscription.
        CREATE SUBSCRIPTION
        

  * On the publisher, manually create a slot using the same name that was specified during `CREATE SUBSCRIPTION`, e.g. "myslot".
        
        test_pub=# SELECT * FROM pg_create_logical_replication_slot('myslot', 'pgoutput');
         slot_name |    lsn
        -----------+-----------
         myslot    | 0/19059A0
        (1 row)
        

  * On the subscriber, the remaining subscription activation steps are the same as before.
        
        test_sub=# ALTER SUBSCRIPTION sub1 ENABLE;
        ALTER SUBSCRIPTION
        test_sub=# ALTER SUBSCRIPTION sub1 REFRESH PUBLICATION;
        ALTER SUBSCRIPTION
        

Example 3: Where the subscription specifies `slot_name = NONE`

  * Create the subscription. When `slot_name = NONE` then `enabled = false`, and `create_slot = false` are also needed.
        
        test_sub=# CREATE SUBSCRIPTION sub1
        test_sub-# CONNECTION 'host=localhost dbname=test_pub'
        test_sub-# PUBLICATION pub1
        test_sub-# WITH (slot_name=NONE, enabled=false, create_slot=false);
        CREATE SUBSCRIPTION
        

  * On the publisher, manually create a slot using any name, e.g. "myslot".
        
        test_pub=# SELECT * FROM pg_create_logical_replication_slot('myslot', 'pgoutput');
         slot_name |    lsn
        -----------+-----------
         myslot    | 0/1905930
        (1 row)
        

  * On the subscriber, associate the subscription with the slot name just created.
        
        test_sub=# ALTER SUBSCRIPTION sub1 SET (slot_name='myslot');
        ALTER SUBSCRIPTION
        

  * The remaining subscription activation steps are same as before.
        
        test_sub=# ALTER SUBSCRIPTION sub1 ENABLE;
        ALTER SUBSCRIPTION
        test_sub=# ALTER SUBSCRIPTION sub1 REFRESH PUBLICATION;
        ALTER SUBSCRIPTION
        

* * *

[Prev](logical-replication-publication.html "31.1. Publication")  | [Up](logical-replication.html "Chapter 31. Logical Replication") |  [Next](logical-replication-row-filter.html "31.3. Row Filters")  
---|---|---  
31.1. Publication  | [Home](index.html "PostgreSQL 16.9 Documentation") |  31.3. Row Filters  
  
## Submit correction

If you see anything in the documentation that is not correct, does not match
your experience with the particular feature or requires further clarification,
please use [this form](/account/comments/new/16/logical-replication-
subscription.html/) to report a documentation issue.

[Privacy Policy](/about/privacypolicy) | [Code of Conduct](/about/policies/coc/) | [About PostgreSQL](/about/) | [Contact](/about/contact/)  

Copyright (C) 1996-2025 The PostgreSQL Global Development Group

