[ ![PostgreSQL Elephant Logo](/media/img/about/press/elephant.png) ](/)

  * [Home](/ "Home")
  * [About](/about/ "About")
  * [Download](/download/ "Download")
  * [Documentation](/docs/ "Documentation")
  * [Community](/community/ "Community")
  * [Developers](/developer/ "Developers")
  * [Support](/support/ "Support")
  * [Donate](/about/donate/ "Donate")
  * [Your account](/account/ "Your account")

__

May 8, 2025: [ PostgreSQL 17.5, 16.9, 15.13, 14.18, and 13.21 Released! ](/about/news/postgresql-175-169-1513-1418-and-1321-released-3072/) | [ PostgreSQL 18 Beta 1 Released! ](/about/news/postgresql-18-beta-1-released-3070/)

[Documentation](/docs/ "Documentation") -> [PostgreSQL
16](/docs/16/index.html)

Supported Versions: [Current](/docs/current/protocol-replication.html
"PostgreSQL 17 - 55.4. Streaming Replication Protocol")
([17](/docs/17/protocol-replication.html "PostgreSQL 17 - 55.4. Streaming
Replication Protocol")) / [16](/docs/16/protocol-replication.html "PostgreSQL
16 - 55.4. Streaming Replication Protocol") / [15](/docs/15/protocol-
replication.html "PostgreSQL 15 - 55.4. Streaming Replication Protocol") /
[14](/docs/14/protocol-replication.html "PostgreSQL 14 - 55.4. Streaming
Replication Protocol") / [13](/docs/13/protocol-replication.html "PostgreSQL
13 - 55.4. Streaming Replication Protocol")

Development Versions: [18](/docs/18/protocol-replication.html "PostgreSQL 18 -
55.4. Streaming Replication Protocol") / [devel](/docs/devel/protocol-
replication.html "PostgreSQL devel - 55.4. Streaming Replication Protocol")

Unsupported versions: [12](/docs/12/protocol-replication.html "PostgreSQL 12 -
55.4. Streaming Replication Protocol") / [11](/docs/11/protocol-
replication.html "PostgreSQL 11 - 55.4. Streaming Replication Protocol") /
[10](/docs/10/protocol-replication.html "PostgreSQL 10 - 55.4. Streaming
Replication Protocol") / [9.6](/docs/9.6/protocol-replication.html "PostgreSQL
9.6 - 55.4. Streaming Replication Protocol") / [9.5](/docs/9.5/protocol-
replication.html "PostgreSQL 9.5 - 55.4. Streaming Replication Protocol") /
[9.4](/docs/9.4/protocol-replication.html "PostgreSQL 9.4 - 55.4. Streaming
Replication Protocol") / [9.3](/docs/9.3/protocol-replication.html "PostgreSQL
9.3 - 55.4. Streaming Replication Protocol") / [9.2](/docs/9.2/protocol-
replication.html "PostgreSQL 9.2 - 55.4. Streaming Replication Protocol") /
[9.1](/docs/9.1/protocol-replication.html "PostgreSQL 9.1 - 55.4. Streaming
Replication Protocol") / [9.0](/docs/9.0/protocol-replication.html "PostgreSQL
9.0 - 55.4. Streaming Replication Protocol")

__

55.4. Streaming Replication Protocol  
---  
[Prev](sasl-authentication.html "55.3. SASL Authentication")  | [Up](protocol.html "Chapter 55. Frontend/Backend Protocol") | Chapter 55. Frontend/Backend Protocol | [Home](index.html "PostgreSQL 16.9 Documentation") |  [Next](protocol-logical-replication.html "55.5. Logical Streaming Replication Protocol")  
  
* * *

## 55.4. Streaming Replication Protocol #

To initiate streaming replication, the frontend sends the `replication`
parameter in the startup message. A Boolean value of `true` (or `on`, `yes`,
`1`) tells the backend to go into physical replication walsender mode, wherein
a small set of replication commands, shown below, can be issued instead of SQL
statements.

Passing `database` as the value for the `replication` parameter instructs the
backend to go into logical replication walsender mode, connecting to the
database specified in the `dbname` parameter. In logical replication walsender
mode, the replication commands shown below as well as normal SQL commands can
be issued.

In either physical replication or logical replication walsender mode, only the
simple query protocol can be used.

For the purpose of testing replication commands, you can make a replication
connection via psql or any other libpq-using tool with a connection string
including the `replication` option, e.g.:

    
    
    psql "dbname=postgres replication=database" -c "IDENTIFY_SYSTEM;"
    

However, it is often more useful to use [pg_receivewal](app-pgreceivewal.html
"pg_receivewal") (for physical replication) or [pg_recvlogical](app-
pgrecvlogical.html "pg_recvlogical") (for logical replication).

Replication commands are logged in the server log when
[log_replication_commands](runtime-config-logging.html#GUC-LOG-REPLICATION-
COMMANDS) is enabled.

The commands accepted in replication mode are:

`IDENTIFY_SYSTEM` #

    

Requests the server to identify itself. Server replies with a result set of a
single row, containing four fields:

`systemid` (`text`)

    

The unique system identifier identifying the cluster. This can be used to
check that the base backup used to initialize the standby came from the same
cluster.

`timeline` (`int8`)

    

Current timeline ID. Also useful to check that the standby is consistent with
the primary.

`xlogpos` (`text`)

    

Current WAL flush location. Useful to get a known location in the write-ahead
log where streaming can start.

`dbname` (`text`)

    

Database connected to or null.

`SHOW` _`name`_ #

    

Requests the server to send the current setting of a run-time parameter. This
is similar to the SQL command [SHOW](sql-show.html "SHOW").

_`name`_

    

The name of a run-time parameter. Available parameters are documented in
[Chapter 20](runtime-config.html "Chapter 20. Server Configuration").

`TIMELINE_HISTORY` _`tli`_ #

    

Requests the server to send over the timeline history file for timeline
_`tli`_. Server replies with a result set of a single row, containing two
fields. While the fields are labeled as `text`, they effectively return raw
bytes, with no encoding conversion:

`filename` (`text`)

    

File name of the timeline history file, e.g., `00000002.history`.

`content` (`text`)

    

Contents of the timeline history file.

`CREATE_REPLICATION_SLOT` _`slot_name`_ [ `TEMPORARY` ] { `PHYSICAL` | `LOGICAL` _`output_plugin`_ } [ ( _`option`_ [, ...] ) ]  #
    

Create a physical or logical replication slot. See [Section 27.2.6](warm-
standby.html#STREAMING-REPLICATION-SLOTS "27.2.6. Replication Slots") for more
about replication slots.

_`slot_name`_

    

The name of the slot to create. Must be a valid replication slot name (see
[Section 27.2.6.1](warm-standby.html#STREAMING-REPLICATION-SLOTS-MANIPULATION
"27.2.6.1. Querying and Manipulating Replication Slots")).

_`output_plugin`_

    

The name of the output plugin used for logical decoding (see [Section
49.6](logicaldecoding-output-plugin.html "49.6. Logical Decoding Output
Plugins")).

`TEMPORARY`

    

Specify that this replication slot is a temporary one. Temporary slots are not
saved to disk and are automatically dropped on error or when the session has
finished.

The following options are supported:

`TWO_PHASE [ _`boolean`_ ]`

    

If true, this logical replication slot supports decoding of two-phase commit.
With this option, commands related to two-phase commit such as `PREPARE
TRANSACTION`, `COMMIT PREPARED` and `ROLLBACK PREPARED` are decoded and
transmitted. The transaction will be decoded and transmitted at `PREPARE
TRANSACTION` time. The default is false.

`RESERVE_WAL [ _`boolean`_ ]`

    

If true, this physical replication slot reserves WAL immediately. Otherwise,
WAL is only reserved upon connection from a streaming replication client. The
default is false.

`SNAPSHOT { 'export' | 'use' | 'nothing' }`
    

Decides what to do with the snapshot created during logical slot
initialization. `'export'`, which is the default, will export the snapshot for
use in other sessions. This option can't be used inside a transaction. `'use'`
will use the snapshot for the current transaction executing the command. This
option must be used in a transaction, and `CREATE_REPLICATION_SLOT` must be
the first command run in that transaction. Finally, `'nothing'` will just use
the snapshot for logical decoding as normal but won't do anything else with
it.

In response to this command, the server will send a one-row result set
containing the following fields:

`slot_name` (`text`)

    

The name of the newly-created replication slot.

`consistent_point` (`text`)

    

The WAL location at which the slot became consistent. This is the earliest
location from which streaming can start on this replication slot.

`snapshot_name` (`text`)

    

The identifier of the snapshot exported by the command. The snapshot is valid
until a new command is executed on this connection or the replication
connection is closed. Null if the created slot is physical.

`output_plugin` (`text`)

    

The name of the output plugin used by the newly-created replication slot. Null
if the created slot is physical.

`CREATE_REPLICATION_SLOT` _`slot_name`_ [ `TEMPORARY` ] { `PHYSICAL` [ `RESERVE_WAL` ] | `LOGICAL` _`output_plugin`_ [ `EXPORT_SNAPSHOT` | `NOEXPORT_SNAPSHOT` | `USE_SNAPSHOT` | `TWO_PHASE` ] } #
    

For compatibility with older releases, this alternative syntax for the
`CREATE_REPLICATION_SLOT` command is still supported.

`READ_REPLICATION_SLOT` _`slot_name`_ #

    

Read some information associated with a replication slot. Returns a tuple with
`NULL` values if the replication slot does not exist. This command is
currently only supported for physical replication slots.

In response to this command, the server will return a one-row result set,
containing the following fields:

`slot_type` (`text`)

    

The replication slot's type, either `physical` or `NULL`.

`restart_lsn` (`text`)

    

The replication slot's `restart_lsn`.

`restart_tli` (`int8`)

    

The timeline ID associated with `restart_lsn`, following the current timeline
history.

`START_REPLICATION` [ `SLOT` _`slot_name`_ ] [ `PHYSICAL` ] _`XXX/XXX`_ [
`TIMELINE` _`tli`_ ]  #

    

Instructs server to start streaming WAL, starting at WAL location _`XXX/XXX`_.
If `TIMELINE` option is specified, streaming starts on timeline _`tli`_ ;
otherwise, the server's current timeline is selected. The server can reply
with an error, for example if the requested section of WAL has already been
recycled. On success, the server responds with a CopyBothResponse message, and
then starts to stream WAL to the frontend.

If a slot's name is provided via _`slot_name`_ , it will be updated as
replication progresses so that the server knows which WAL segments, and if
`hot_standby_feedback` is on which transactions, are still needed by the
standby.

If the client requests a timeline that's not the latest but is part of the
history of the server, the server will stream all the WAL on that timeline
starting from the requested start point up to the point where the server
switched to another timeline. If the client requests streaming at exactly the
end of an old timeline, the server skips COPY mode entirely.

After streaming all the WAL on a timeline that is not the latest one, the
server will end streaming by exiting the COPY mode. When the client
acknowledges this by also exiting COPY mode, the server sends a result set
with one row and two columns, indicating the next timeline in this server's
history. The first column is the next timeline's ID (type `int8`), and the
second column is the WAL location where the switch happened (type `text`).
Usually, the switch position is the end of the WAL that was streamed, but
there are corner cases where the server can send some WAL from the old
timeline that it has not itself replayed before promoting. Finally, the server
sends two CommandComplete messages (one that ends the CopyData and the other
ends the `START_REPLICATION` itself), and is ready to accept a new command.

WAL data is sent as a series of CopyData messages. (This allows other
information to be intermixed; in particular the server can send an
ErrorResponse message if it encounters a failure after beginning to stream.)
The payload of each CopyData message from server to the client contains a
message of one of the following formats:

XLogData (B) #

    

Byte1('w')

    

Identifies the message as WAL data.

Int64

    

The starting point of the WAL data in this message.

Int64

    

The current end of WAL on the server.

Int64

    

The server's system clock at the time of transmission, as microseconds since
midnight on 2000-01-01.

Byte _`n`_

    

A section of the WAL data stream.

A single WAL record is never split across two XLogData messages. When a WAL
record crosses a WAL page boundary, and is therefore already split using
continuation records, it can be split at the page boundary. In other words,
the first main WAL record and its continuation records can be sent in
different XLogData messages.

Primary keepalive message (B) #

    

Byte1('k')

    

Identifies the message as a sender keepalive.

Int64

    

The current end of WAL on the server.

Int64

    

The server's system clock at the time of transmission, as microseconds since
midnight on 2000-01-01.

Byte1

    

1 means that the client should reply to this message as soon as possible, to
avoid a timeout disconnect. 0 otherwise.

The receiving process can send replies back to the sender at any time, using
one of the following message formats (also in the payload of a CopyData
message):

Standby status update (F) #

    

Byte1('r')

    

Identifies the message as a receiver status update.

Int64

    

The location of the last WAL byte + 1 received and written to disk in the
standby.

Int64

    

The location of the last WAL byte + 1 flushed to disk in the standby.

Int64

    

The location of the last WAL byte + 1 applied in the standby.

Int64

    

The client's system clock at the time of transmission, as microseconds since
midnight on 2000-01-01.

Byte1

    

If 1, the client requests the server to reply to this message immediately.
This can be used to ping the server, to test if the connection is still
healthy.

Hot standby feedback message (F) #

    

Byte1('h')

    

Identifies the message as a hot standby feedback message.

Int64

    

The client's system clock at the time of transmission, as microseconds since
midnight on 2000-01-01.

Int32

    

The standby's current global xmin, excluding the catalog_xmin from any
replication slots. If both this value and the following catalog_xmin are 0
this is treated as a notification that hot standby feedback will no longer be
sent on this connection. Later non-zero messages may reinitiate the feedback
mechanism.

Int32

    

The epoch of the global xmin xid on the standby.

Int32

    

The lowest catalog_xmin of any replication slots on the standby. Set to 0 if
no catalog_xmin exists on the standby or if hot standby feedback is being
disabled.

Int32

    

The epoch of the catalog_xmin xid on the standby.

`START_REPLICATION` `SLOT` _`slot_name`_ `LOGICAL` _`XXX/XXX`_ [ (
_`option_name`_ [ _`option_value`_ ] [, ...] ) ] #

    

Instructs server to start streaming WAL for logical replication, starting at
either WAL location _`XXX/XXX`_ or the slot's `confirmed_flush_lsn` (see
[Section 54.19](view-pg-replication-slots.html
"54.19. pg_replication_slots")), whichever is greater. This behavior makes it
easier for clients to avoid updating their local LSN status when there is no
data to process. However, starting at a different LSN than requested might not
catch certain kinds of client errors; so the client may wish to check that
`confirmed_flush_lsn` matches its expectations before issuing
`START_REPLICATION`.

The server can reply with an error, for example if the slot does not exist. On
success, the server responds with a CopyBothResponse message, and then starts
to stream WAL to the frontend.

The messages inside the CopyBothResponse messages are of the same format
documented for `START_REPLICATION ... PHYSICAL`, including two CommandComplete
messages.

The output plugin associated with the selected slot is used to process the
output for streaming.

`SLOT` _`slot_name`_

    

The name of the slot to stream changes from. This parameter is required, and
must correspond to an existing logical replication slot created with
`CREATE_REPLICATION_SLOT` in `LOGICAL` mode.

_`XXX/XXX`_

    

The WAL location to begin streaming at.

_`option_name`_

    

The name of an option passed to the slot's logical decoding output plugin. See
[Section 55.5](protocol-logical-replication.html "55.5. Logical Streaming
Replication Protocol") for options that are accepted by the standard
(`pgoutput`) plugin.

_`option_value`_

    

Optional value, in the form of a string constant, associated with the
specified option.

`DROP_REPLICATION_SLOT` _`slot_name`_ [ `WAIT` ]  #

    

Drops a replication slot, freeing any reserved server-side resources.

_`slot_name`_

    

The name of the slot to drop.

`WAIT`

    

This option causes the command to wait if the slot is active until it becomes
inactive, instead of the default behavior of raising an error.

`BASE_BACKUP` [ ( _`option`_ [, ...] ) ]  #

    

Instructs the server to start streaming a base backup. The system will
automatically be put in backup mode before the backup is started, and taken
out of it when the backup is complete. The following options are accepted:

`LABEL` _`'label'`_

    

Sets the label of the backup. If none is specified, a backup label of `base
backup` will be used. The quoting rules for the label are the same as a
standard SQL string with [standard_conforming_strings](runtime-config-
compatible.html#GUC-STANDARD-CONFORMING-STRINGS) turned on.

`TARGET` _`'target'`_

    

Tells the server where to send the backup. If the target is `client`, which is
the default, the backup data is sent to the client. If it is `server`, the
backup data is written to the server at the pathname specified by the
`TARGET_DETAIL` option. If it is `blackhole`, the backup data is not sent
anywhere; it is simply discarded.

The `server` target requires superuser privilege or being granted the
`pg_write_server_files` role.

`TARGET_DETAIL` _`'detail'`_

    

Provides additional information about the backup target.

Currently, this option can only be used when the backup target is `server`. It
specifies the server directory to which the backup should be written.

`PROGRESS [ _`boolean`_ ]`

    

If set to true, request information required to generate a progress report.
This will send back an approximate size in the header of each tablespace,
which can be used to calculate how far along the stream is done. This is
calculated by enumerating all the file sizes once before the transfer is even
started, and might as such have a negative impact on the performance. In
particular, it might take longer before the first data is streamed. Since the
database files can change during the backup, the size is only approximate and
might both grow and shrink between the time of approximation and the sending
of the actual files. The default is false.

`CHECKPOINT { 'fast' | 'spread' }`
    

Sets the type of checkpoint to be performed at the beginning of the base
backup. The default is `spread`.

`WAL [ _`boolean`_ ]`

    

If set to true, include the necessary WAL segments in the backup. This will
include all the files between start and stop backup in the `pg_wal` directory
of the base directory tar file. The default is false.

`WAIT [ _`boolean`_ ]`

    

If set to true, the backup will wait until the last required WAL segment has
been archived, or emit a warning if WAL archiving is not enabled. If false,
the backup will neither wait nor warn, leaving the client responsible for
ensuring the required log is available. The default is true.

`COMPRESSION` _`'method'`_

    

Instructs the server to compress the backup using the specified method.
Currently, the supported methods are `gzip`, `lz4`, and `zstd`.

`COMPRESSION_DETAIL` _`detail`_

    

Specifies details for the chosen compression method. This should only be used
in conjunction with the `COMPRESSION` option. If the value is an integer, it
specifies the compression level. Otherwise, it should be a comma-separated
list of items, each of the form _`keyword`_ or _`keyword=value`_. Currently,
the supported keywords are `level`, `long` and `workers`.

The `level` keyword sets the compression level. For `gzip` the compression
level should be an integer between `1` and `9` (default
`Z_DEFAULT_COMPRESSION` or `-1`), for `lz4` an integer between 1 and 12
(default `0` for fast compression mode), and for `zstd` an integer between
`ZSTD_minCLevel()` (usually `-131072`) and `ZSTD_maxCLevel()` (usually `22`),
(default `ZSTD_CLEVEL_DEFAULT` or `3`).

The `long` keyword enables long-distance matching mode, for improved
compression ratio, at the expense of higher memory use. Long-distance mode is
supported only for `zstd`.

The `workers` keyword sets the number of threads that should be used for
parallel compression. Parallel compression is supported only for `zstd`.

`MAX_RATE` _`rate`_

    

Limit (throttle) the maximum amount of data transferred from server to client
per unit of time. The expected unit is kilobytes per second. If this option is
specified, the value must either be equal to zero or it must fall within the
range from 32 kB through 1 GB (inclusive). If zero is passed or the option is
not specified, no restriction is imposed on the transfer.

`TABLESPACE_MAP [ _`boolean`_ ]`

    

If true, include information about symbolic links present in the directory
`pg_tblspc` in a file named `tablespace_map`. The tablespace map file includes
each symbolic link name as it exists in the directory `pg_tblspc/` and the
full path of that symbolic link. The default is false.

`VERIFY_CHECKSUMS [ _`boolean`_ ]`

    

If true, checksums are verified during a base backup if they are enabled. If
false, this is skipped. The default is true.

`MANIFEST` _`manifest_option`_

    

When this option is specified with a value of `yes` or `force-encode`, a
backup manifest is created and sent along with the backup. The manifest is a
list of every file present in the backup with the exception of any WAL files
that may be included. It also stores the size, last modification time, and
optionally a checksum for each file. A value of `force-encode` forces all
filenames to be hex-encoded; otherwise, this type of encoding is performed
only for files whose names are non-UTF8 octet sequences. `force-encode` is
intended primarily for testing purposes, to be sure that clients which read
the backup manifest can handle this case. For compatibility with previous
releases, the default is `MANIFEST 'no'`.

`MANIFEST_CHECKSUMS` _`checksum_algorithm`_

    

Specifies the checksum algorithm that should be applied to each file included
in the backup manifest. Currently, the available algorithms are `NONE`,
`CRC32C`, `SHA224`, `SHA256`, `SHA384`, and `SHA512`. The default is `CRC32C`.

When the backup is started, the server will first send two ordinary result
sets, followed by one or more CopyOutResponse results.

The first ordinary result set contains the starting position of the backup, in
a single row with two columns. The first column contains the start position
given in XLogRecPtr format, and the second column contains the corresponding
timeline ID.

The second ordinary result set has one row for each tablespace. The fields in
this row are:

`spcoid` (`oid`)

    

The OID of the tablespace, or null if it's the base directory.

`spclocation` (`text`)

    

The full path of the tablespace directory, or null if it's the base directory.

`size` (`int8`)

    

The approximate size of the tablespace, in kilobytes (1024 bytes), if progress
report has been requested; otherwise it's null.

After the second regular result set, a CopyOutResponse will be sent. The
payload of each CopyData message will contain a message in one of the
following formats:

new archive (B)

    

Byte1('n')

    

Identifies the message as indicating the start of a new archive. There will be
one archive for the main data directory and one for each additional
tablespace; each will use tar format (following the “ustar interchange format”
specified in the POSIX 1003.1-2008 standard).

String

    

The file name for this archive.

String

    

For the main data directory, an empty string. For other tablespaces, the full
path to the directory from which this archive was created.

manifest (B)

    

Byte1('m')

    

Identifies the message as indicating the start of the backup manifest.

archive or manifest data (B)

    

Byte1('d')

    

Identifies the message as containing archive or manifest data.

Byte _`n`_

    

Data bytes.

progress report (B)

    

Byte1('p')

    

Identifies the message as a progress report.

Int64

    

The number of bytes from the current tablespace for which processing has been
completed.

After the CopyOutResponse, or all such responses, have been sent, a final
ordinary result set will be sent, containing the WAL end position of the
backup, in the same format as the start position.

The tar archive for the data directory and each tablespace will contain all
files in the directories, regardless of whether they are PostgreSQL files or
other files added to the same directory. The only excluded files are:

  * `postmaster.pid`

  * `postmaster.opts`

  * `pg_internal.init` (found in multiple directories)

  * Various temporary files and directories created during the operation of the PostgreSQL server, such as any file or directory beginning with `pgsql_tmp` and temporary relations.

  * Unlogged relations, except for the init fork which is required to recreate the (empty) unlogged relation on recovery.

  * `pg_wal`, including subdirectories. If the backup is run with WAL files included, a synthesized version of `pg_wal` will be included, but it will only contain the files necessary for the backup to work, not the rest of the contents.

  * `pg_dynshmem`, `pg_notify`, `pg_replslot`, `pg_serial`, `pg_snapshots`, `pg_stat_tmp`, and `pg_subtrans` are copied as empty directories (even if they are symbolic links).

  * Files other than regular files and directories, such as symbolic links (other than for the directories listed above) and special device and operating system files, are skipped. (Symbolic links in `pg_tblspc` are maintained.)

Owner, group, and file mode are set if the underlying file system on the
server supports it.

* * *

[Prev](sasl-authentication.html "55.3. SASL Authentication")  | [Up](protocol.html "Chapter 55. Frontend/Backend Protocol") |  [Next](protocol-logical-replication.html "55.5. Logical Streaming Replication Protocol")  
---|---|---  
55.3. SASL Authentication  | [Home](index.html "PostgreSQL 16.9 Documentation") |  55.5. Logical Streaming Replication Protocol  
  
## Submit correction

If you see anything in the documentation that is not correct, does not match
your experience with the particular feature or requires further clarification,
please use [this form](/account/comments/new/16/protocol-replication.html/) to
report a documentation issue.

[Privacy Policy](/about/privacypolicy) | [Code of Conduct](/about/policies/coc/) | [About PostgreSQL](/about/) | [Contact](/about/contact/)  

Copyright (C) 1996-2025 The PostgreSQL Global Development Group

