[ ![PostgreSQL Elephant Logo](/media/img/about/press/elephant.png) ](/)

  * [Home](/ "Home")
  * [About](/about/ "About")
  * [Download](/download/ "Download")
  * [Documentation](/docs/ "Documentation")
  * [Community](/community/ "Community")
  * [Developers](/developer/ "Developers")
  * [Support](/support/ "Support")
  * [Donate](/about/donate/ "Donate")
  * [Your account](/account/ "Your account")

__

May 8, 2025: [ PostgreSQL 17.5, 16.9, 15.13, 14.18, and 13.21 Released! ](/about/news/postgresql-175-169-1513-1418-and-1321-released-3072/) | [ PostgreSQL 18 Beta 1 Released! ](/about/news/postgresql-18-beta-1-released-3070/)

[Documentation](/docs/ "Documentation") -> [PostgreSQL
16](/docs/16/index.html)

Supported Versions: [Current](/docs/current/protocol-error-fields.html
"PostgreSQL 17 - 55.8. Error and Notice Message Fields")
([17](/docs/17/protocol-error-fields.html "PostgreSQL 17 - 55.8. Error and
Notice Message Fields")) / [16](/docs/16/protocol-error-fields.html
"PostgreSQL 16 - 55.8. Error and Notice Message Fields") /
[15](/docs/15/protocol-error-fields.html "PostgreSQL 15 - 55.8. Error and
Notice Message Fields") / [14](/docs/14/protocol-error-fields.html "PostgreSQL
14 - 55.8. Error and Notice Message Fields") / [13](/docs/13/protocol-error-
fields.html "PostgreSQL 13 - 55.8. Error and Notice Message Fields")

Development Versions: [18](/docs/18/protocol-error-fields.html "PostgreSQL 18
- 55.8. Error and Notice Message Fields") / [devel](/docs/devel/protocol-
error-fields.html "PostgreSQL devel - 55.8. Error and Notice Message Fields")

Unsupported versions: [12](/docs/12/protocol-error-fields.html "PostgreSQL 12
- 55.8. Error and Notice Message Fields") / [11](/docs/11/protocol-error-
fields.html "PostgreSQL 11 - 55.8. Error and Notice Message Fields") /
[10](/docs/10/protocol-error-fields.html "PostgreSQL 10 - 55.8. Error and
Notice Message Fields") / [9.6](/docs/9.6/protocol-error-fields.html
"PostgreSQL 9.6 - 55.8. Error and Notice Message Fields") /
[9.5](/docs/9.5/protocol-error-fields.html "PostgreSQL 9.5 - 55.8. Error and
Notice Message Fields") / [9.4](/docs/9.4/protocol-error-fields.html
"PostgreSQL 9.4 - 55.8. Error and Notice Message Fields") /
[9.3](/docs/9.3/protocol-error-fields.html "PostgreSQL 9.3 - 55.8. Error and
Notice Message Fields") / [9.2](/docs/9.2/protocol-error-fields.html
"PostgreSQL 9.2 - 55.8. Error and Notice Message Fields") /
[9.1](/docs/9.1/protocol-error-fields.html "PostgreSQL 9.1 - 55.8. Error and
Notice Message Fields") / [9.0](/docs/9.0/protocol-error-fields.html
"PostgreSQL 9.0 - 55.8. Error and Notice Message Fields") /
[8.4](/docs/8.4/protocol-error-fields.html "PostgreSQL 8.4 - 55.8. Error and
Notice Message Fields") / [8.3](/docs/8.3/protocol-error-fields.html
"PostgreSQL 8.3 - 55.8. Error and Notice Message Fields") /
[8.2](/docs/8.2/protocol-error-fields.html "PostgreSQL 8.2 - 55.8. Error and
Notice Message Fields") / [8.1](/docs/8.1/protocol-error-fields.html
"PostgreSQL 8.1 - 55.8. Error and Notice Message Fields") /
[8.0](/docs/8.0/protocol-error-fields.html "PostgreSQL 8.0 - 55.8. Error and
Notice Message Fields") / [7.4](/docs/7.4/protocol-error-fields.html
"PostgreSQL 7.4 - 55.8. Error and Notice Message Fields")

__

55.8. Error and Notice Message Fields  
---  
[Prev](protocol-message-formats.html "55.7. Message Formats")  | [Up](protocol.html "Chapter 55. Frontend/Backend Protocol") | Chapter 55. Frontend/Backend Protocol | [Home](index.html "PostgreSQL 16.9 Documentation") |  [Next](protocol-logicalrep-message-formats.html "55.9. Logical Replication Message Formats")  
  
* * *

## 55.8. Error and Notice Message Fields #

This section describes the fields that can appear in ErrorResponse and
NoticeResponse messages. Each field type has a single-byte identification
token. Note that any given field type should appear at most once per message.

`S`

    

Severity: the field contents are `ERROR`, `FATAL`, or `PANIC` (in an error
message), or `WARNING`, `NOTICE`, `DEBUG`, `INFO`, or `LOG` (in a notice
message), or a localized translation of one of these. Always present.

`V`

    

Severity: the field contents are `ERROR`, `FATAL`, or `PANIC` (in an error
message), or `WARNING`, `NOTICE`, `DEBUG`, `INFO`, or `LOG` (in a notice
message). This is identical to the `S` field except that the contents are
never localized. This is present only in messages generated by PostgreSQL
versions 9.6 and later.

`C`

    

Code: the SQLSTATE code for the error (see [Appendix A](errcodes-appendix.html
"Appendix A. PostgreSQL Error Codes")). Not localizable. Always present.

`M`

    

Message: the primary human-readable error message. This should be accurate but
terse (typically one line). Always present.

`D`

    

Detail: an optional secondary error message carrying more detail about the
problem. Might run to multiple lines.

`H`

    

Hint: an optional suggestion what to do about the problem. This is intended to
differ from Detail in that it offers advice (potentially inappropriate) rather
than hard facts. Might run to multiple lines.

`P`

    

Position: the field value is a decimal ASCII integer, indicating an error
cursor position as an index into the original query string. The first
character has index 1, and positions are measured in characters not bytes.

`p`

    

Internal position: this is defined the same as the `P` field, but it is used
when the cursor position refers to an internally generated command rather than
the one submitted by the client. The `q` field will always appear when this
field appears.

`q`

    

Internal query: the text of a failed internally-generated command. This could
be, for example, an SQL query issued by a PL/pgSQL function.

`W`

    

Where: an indication of the context in which the error occurred. Presently
this includes a call stack traceback of active procedural language functions
and internally-generated queries. The trace is one entry per line, most recent
first.

`s`

    

Schema name: if the error was associated with a specific database object, the
name of the schema containing that object, if any.

`t`

    

Table name: if the error was associated with a specific table, the name of the
table. (Refer to the schema name field for the name of the table's schema.)

`c`

    

Column name: if the error was associated with a specific table column, the
name of the column. (Refer to the schema and table name fields to identify the
table.)

`d`

    

Data type name: if the error was associated with a specific data type, the
name of the data type. (Refer to the schema name field for the name of the
data type's schema.)

`n`

    

Constraint name: if the error was associated with a specific constraint, the
name of the constraint. Refer to fields listed above for the associated table
or domain. (For this purpose, indexes are treated as constraints, even if they
weren't created with constraint syntax.)

`F`

    

File: the file name of the source-code location where the error was reported.

`L`

    

Line: the line number of the source-code location where the error was
reported.

`R`

    

Routine: the name of the source-code routine reporting the error.

### Note

The fields for schema name, table name, column name, data type name, and
constraint name are supplied only for a limited number of error types; see
[Appendix A](errcodes-appendix.html "Appendix A. PostgreSQL Error Codes").
Frontends should not assume that the presence of any of these fields
guarantees the presence of another field. Core error sources observe the
interrelationships noted above, but user-defined functions may use these
fields in other ways. In the same vein, clients should not assume that these
fields denote contemporary objects in the current database.

The client is responsible for formatting displayed information to meet its
needs; in particular it should break long lines as needed. Newline characters
appearing in the error message fields should be treated as paragraph breaks,
not line breaks.

* * *

[Prev](protocol-message-formats.html "55.7. Message Formats")  | [Up](protocol.html "Chapter 55. Frontend/Backend Protocol") |  [Next](protocol-logicalrep-message-formats.html "55.9. Logical Replication Message Formats")  
---|---|---  
55.7. Message Formats  | [Home](index.html "PostgreSQL 16.9 Documentation") |  55.9. Logical Replication Message Formats  
  
## Submit correction

If you see anything in the documentation that is not correct, does not match
your experience with the particular feature or requires further clarification,
please use [this form](/account/comments/new/16/protocol-error-fields.html/)
to report a documentation issue.

[Privacy Policy](/about/privacypolicy) | [Code of Conduct](/about/policies/coc/) | [About PostgreSQL](/about/) | [Contact](/about/contact/)  

Copyright (C) 1996-2025 The PostgreSQL Global Development Group

