[ ![PostgreSQL Elephant Logo](/media/img/about/press/elephant.png) ](/)

  * [Home](/ "Home")
  * [About](/about/ "About")
  * [Download](/download/ "Download")
  * [Documentation](/docs/ "Documentation")
  * [Community](/community/ "Community")
  * [Developers](/developer/ "Developers")
  * [Support](/support/ "Support")
  * [Donate](/about/donate/ "Donate")
  * [Your account](/account/ "Your account")

__

May 8, 2025: [ PostgreSQL 17.5, 16.9, 15.13, 14.18, and 13.21 Released! ](/about/news/postgresql-175-169-1513-1418-and-1321-released-3072/) | [ PostgreSQL 18 Beta 1 Released! ](/about/news/postgresql-18-beta-1-released-3070/)

[Documentation](/docs/ "Documentation") -> [PostgreSQL
16](/docs/16/index.html)

Supported Versions: [Current](/docs/current/rowtypes.html "PostgreSQL 17 -
8.16. Composite Types") ([17](/docs/17/rowtypes.html "PostgreSQL 17 -
8.16. Composite Types")) / [16](/docs/16/rowtypes.html "PostgreSQL 16 -
8.16. Composite Types") / [15](/docs/15/rowtypes.html "PostgreSQL 15 -
8.16. Composite Types") / [14](/docs/14/rowtypes.html "PostgreSQL 14 -
8.16. Composite Types") / [13](/docs/13/rowtypes.html "PostgreSQL 13 -
8.16. Composite Types")

Development Versions: [18](/docs/18/rowtypes.html "PostgreSQL 18 -
8.16. Composite Types") / [devel](/docs/devel/rowtypes.html "PostgreSQL devel
- 8.16. Composite Types")

Unsupported versions: [12](/docs/12/rowtypes.html "PostgreSQL 12 -
8.16. Composite Types") / [11](/docs/11/rowtypes.html "PostgreSQL 11 -
8.16. Composite Types") / [10](/docs/10/rowtypes.html "PostgreSQL 10 -
8.16. Composite Types") / [9.6](/docs/9.6/rowtypes.html "PostgreSQL 9.6 -
8.16. Composite Types") / [9.5](/docs/9.5/rowtypes.html "PostgreSQL 9.5 -
8.16. Composite Types") / [9.4](/docs/9.4/rowtypes.html "PostgreSQL 9.4 -
8.16. Composite Types") / [9.3](/docs/9.3/rowtypes.html "PostgreSQL 9.3 -
8.16. Composite Types") / [9.2](/docs/9.2/rowtypes.html "PostgreSQL 9.2 -
8.16. Composite Types") / [9.1](/docs/9.1/rowtypes.html "PostgreSQL 9.1 -
8.16. Composite Types") / [9.0](/docs/9.0/rowtypes.html "PostgreSQL 9.0 -
8.16. Composite Types") / [8.4](/docs/8.4/rowtypes.html "PostgreSQL 8.4 -
8.16. Composite Types") / [8.3](/docs/8.3/rowtypes.html "PostgreSQL 8.3 -
8.16. Composite Types") / [8.2](/docs/8.2/rowtypes.html "PostgreSQL 8.2 -
8.16. Composite Types") / [8.1](/docs/8.1/rowtypes.html "PostgreSQL 8.1 -
8.16. Composite Types") / [8.0](/docs/8.0/rowtypes.html "PostgreSQL 8.0 -
8.16. Composite Types")

__

8.16. Composite Types  
---  
[Prev](arrays.html "8.15. Arrays")  | [Up](datatype.html "Chapter 8. Data Types") | Chapter 8. Data Types | [Home](index.html "PostgreSQL 16.9 Documentation") |  [Next](rangetypes.html "8.17. Range Types")  
  
* * *

## 8.16. Composite Types #

[8.16.1. Declaration of Composite Types](rowtypes.html#ROWTYPES-DECLARING)

[8.16.2. Constructing Composite Values](rowtypes.html#ROWTYPES-CONSTRUCTING)

[8.16.3. Accessing Composite Types](rowtypes.html#ROWTYPES-ACCESSING)

[8.16.4. Modifying Composite Types](rowtypes.html#ROWTYPES-MODIFYING)

[8.16.5. Using Composite Types in Queries](rowtypes.html#ROWTYPES-USAGE)

[8.16.6. Composite Type Input and Output Syntax](rowtypes.html#ROWTYPES-IO-
SYNTAX)

A _composite type_ represents the structure of a row or record; it is
essentially just a list of field names and their data types. PostgreSQL allows
composite types to be used in many of the same ways that simple types can be
used. For example, a column of a table can be declared to be of a composite
type.

### 8.16.1. Declaration of Composite Types #

Here are two simple examples of defining composite types:

    
    
    CREATE TYPE complex AS (
        r       double precision,
        i       double precision
    );
    
    CREATE TYPE inventory_item AS (
        name            text,
        supplier_id     integer,
        price           numeric
    );
    

The syntax is comparable to `CREATE TABLE`, except that only field names and
types can be specified; no constraints (such as `NOT NULL`) can presently be
included. Note that the `AS` keyword is essential; without it, the system will
think a different kind of `CREATE TYPE` command is meant, and you will get odd
syntax errors.

Having defined the types, we can use them to create tables:

    
    
    CREATE TABLE on_hand (
        item      inventory_item,
        count     integer
    );
    
    INSERT INTO on_hand VALUES (ROW('fuzzy dice', 42, 1.99), 1000);
    

or functions:

    
    
    CREATE FUNCTION price_extension(inventory_item, integer) RETURNS numeric
    AS 'SELECT $1.price * $2' LANGUAGE SQL;
    
    SELECT price_extension(item, 10) FROM on_hand;
    

Whenever you create a table, a composite type is also automatically created,
with the same name as the table, to represent the table's row type. For
example, had we said:

    
    
    CREATE TABLE inventory_item (
        name            text,
        supplier_id     integer REFERENCES suppliers,
        price           numeric CHECK (price > 0)
    );
    

then the same `inventory_item` composite type shown above would come into
being as a byproduct, and could be used just as above. Note however an
important restriction of the current implementation: since no constraints are
associated with a composite type, the constraints shown in the table
definition _do not apply_ to values of the composite type outside the table.
(To work around this, create a [](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-
DOMAIN)[domain](glossary.html#GLOSSARY-DOMAIN "Domain") over the composite
type, and apply the desired constraints as `CHECK` constraints of the domain.)

### 8.16.2. Constructing Composite Values #

To write a composite value as a literal constant, enclose the field values
within parentheses and separate them by commas. You can put double quotes
around any field value, and must do so if it contains commas or parentheses.
(More details appear [below](rowtypes.html#ROWTYPES-IO-SYNTAX
"8.16.6. Composite Type Input and Output Syntax").) Thus, the general format
of a composite constant is the following:

    
    
    '( _val1_ , _val2_ , ... )'
    

An example is:

    
    
    '("fuzzy dice",42,1.99)'
    

which would be a valid value of the `inventory_item` type defined above. To
make a field be NULL, write no characters at all in its position in the list.
For example, this constant specifies a NULL third field:

    
    
    '("fuzzy dice",42,)'
    

If you want an empty string rather than NULL, write double quotes:

    
    
    '("",42,)'
    

Here the first field is a non-NULL empty string, the third is NULL.

(These constants are actually only a special case of the generic type
constants discussed in [Section 4.1.2.7](sql-syntax-lexical.html#SQL-SYNTAX-
CONSTANTS-GENERIC "4.1.2.7. Constants of Other Types"). The constant is
initially treated as a string and passed to the composite-type input
conversion routine. An explicit type specification might be necessary to tell
which type to convert the constant to.)

The `ROW` expression syntax can also be used to construct composite values. In
most cases this is considerably simpler to use than the string-literal syntax
since you don't have to worry about multiple layers of quoting. We already
used this method above:

    
    
    ROW('fuzzy dice', 42, 1.99)
    ROW('', 42, NULL)
    

The ROW keyword is actually optional as long as you have more than one field
in the expression, so these can be simplified to:

    
    
    ('fuzzy dice', 42, 1.99)
    ('', 42, NULL)
    

The `ROW` expression syntax is discussed in more detail in [Section
4.2.13](sql-expressions.html#SQL-SYNTAX-ROW-CONSTRUCTORS "4.2.13. Row
Constructors").

### 8.16.3. Accessing Composite Types #

To access a field of a composite column, one writes a dot and the field name,
much like selecting a field from a table name. In fact, it's so much like
selecting from a table name that you often have to use parentheses to keep
from confusing the parser. For example, you might try to select some subfields
from our `on_hand` example table with something like:

    
    
    SELECT item.name FROM on_hand WHERE item.price > 9.99;
    

This will not work since the name `item` is taken to be a table name, not a
column name of `on_hand`, per SQL syntax rules. You must write it like this:

    
    
    SELECT (item).name FROM on_hand WHERE (item).price > 9.99;
    

or if you need to use the table name as well (for instance in a multitable
query), like this:

    
    
    SELECT (on_hand.item).name FROM on_hand WHERE (on_hand.item).price > 9.99;
    

Now the parenthesized object is correctly interpreted as a reference to the
`item` column, and then the subfield can be selected from it.

Similar syntactic issues apply whenever you select a field from a composite
value. For instance, to select just one field from the result of a function
that returns a composite value, you'd need to write something like:

    
    
    SELECT (my_func(...)).field FROM ...
    

Without the extra parentheses, this will generate a syntax error.

The special field name `*` means “all fields”, as further explained in
[Section 8.16.5](rowtypes.html#ROWTYPES-USAGE "8.16.5. Using Composite Types
in Queries").

### 8.16.4. Modifying Composite Types #

Here are some examples of the proper syntax for inserting and updating
composite columns. First, inserting or updating a whole column:

    
    
    INSERT INTO mytab (complex_col) VALUES((1.1,2.2));
    
    UPDATE mytab SET complex_col = ROW(1.1,2.2) WHERE ...;
    

The first example omits `ROW`, the second uses it; we could have done it
either way.

We can update an individual subfield of a composite column:

    
    
    UPDATE mytab SET complex_col.r = (complex_col).r + 1 WHERE ...;
    

Notice here that we don't need to (and indeed cannot) put parentheses around
the column name appearing just after `SET`, but we do need parentheses when
referencing the same column in the expression to the right of the equal sign.

And we can specify subfields as targets for `INSERT`, too:

    
    
    INSERT INTO mytab (complex_col.r, complex_col.i) VALUES(1.1, 2.2);
    

Had we not supplied values for all the subfields of the column, the remaining
subfields would have been filled with null values.

### 8.16.5. Using Composite Types in Queries #

There are various special syntax rules and behaviors associated with composite
types in queries. These rules provide useful shortcuts, but can be confusing
if you don't know the logic behind them.

In PostgreSQL, a reference to a table name (or alias) in a query is
effectively a reference to the composite value of the table's current row. For
example, if we had a table `inventory_item` as shown
[above](rowtypes.html#ROWTYPES-DECLARING "8.16.1. Declaration of Composite
Types"), we could write:

    
    
    SELECT c FROM inventory_item c;
    

This query produces a single composite-valued column, so we might get output
like:

    
    
               c
    ------------------------
     ("fuzzy dice",42,1.99)
    (1 row)
    

Note however that simple names are matched to column names before table names,
so this example works only because there is no column named `c` in the query's
tables.

The ordinary qualified-column-name syntax _`table_name`_`.`_`column_name`_ can
be understood as applying [field selection](sql-expressions.html#FIELD-
SELECTION "4.2.4. Field Selection") to the composite value of the table's
current row. (For efficiency reasons, it's not actually implemented that way.)

When we write

    
    
    SELECT c.* FROM inventory_item c;
    

then, according to the SQL standard, we should get the contents of the table
expanded into separate columns:

    
    
        name    | supplier_id | price
    ------------+-------------+-------
     fuzzy dice |          42 |  1.99
    (1 row)
    

as if the query were

    
    
    SELECT c.name, c.supplier_id, c.price FROM inventory_item c;
    

PostgreSQL will apply this expansion behavior to any composite-valued
expression, although as shown [above](rowtypes.html#ROWTYPES-ACCESSING
"8.16.3. Accessing Composite Types"), you need to write parentheses around the
value that `.*` is applied to whenever it's not a simple table name. For
example, if `myfunc()` is a function returning a composite type with columns
`a`, `b`, and `c`, then these two queries have the same result:

    
    
    SELECT (myfunc(x)).* FROM some_table;
    SELECT (myfunc(x)).a, (myfunc(x)).b, (myfunc(x)).c FROM some_table;
    

### Tip

PostgreSQL handles column expansion by actually transforming the first form
into the second. So, in this example, `myfunc()` would get invoked three times
per row with either syntax. If it's an expensive function you may wish to
avoid that, which you can do with a query like:

    
    
    SELECT m.* FROM some_table, LATERAL myfunc(x) AS m;
    

Placing the function in a `LATERAL` `FROM` item keeps it from being invoked
more than once per row. `m.*` is still expanded into `m.a, m.b, m.c`, but now
those variables are just references to the output of the `FROM` item. (The
`LATERAL` keyword is optional here, but we show it to clarify that the
function is getting `x` from `some_table`.)

The _`composite_value`_`.*` syntax results in column expansion of this kind
when it appears at the top level of a [`SELECT` output list](queries-select-
lists.html "7.3. Select Lists"), a [`RETURNING` list](dml-returning.html
"6.4. Returning Data from Modified Rows") in `INSERT`/`UPDATE`/`DELETE`, a
[`VALUES` clause](queries-values.html "7.7. VALUES Lists"), or a [row
constructor](sql-expressions.html#SQL-SYNTAX-ROW-CONSTRUCTORS "4.2.13. Row
Constructors"). In all other contexts (including when nested inside one of
those constructs), attaching `.*` to a composite value does not change the
value, since it means “all columns” and so the same composite value is
produced again. For example, if `somefunc()` accepts a composite-valued
argument, these queries are the same:

    
    
    SELECT somefunc(c.*) FROM inventory_item c;
    SELECT somefunc(c) FROM inventory_item c;
    

In both cases, the current row of `inventory_item` is passed to the function
as a single composite-valued argument. Even though `.*` does nothing in such
cases, using it is good style, since it makes clear that a composite value is
intended. In particular, the parser will consider `c` in `c.*` to refer to a
table name or alias, not to a column name, so that there is no ambiguity;
whereas without `.*`, it is not clear whether `c` means a table name or a
column name, and in fact the column-name interpretation will be preferred if
there is a column named `c`.

Another example demonstrating these concepts is that all these queries mean
the same thing:

    
    
    SELECT * FROM inventory_item c ORDER BY c;
    SELECT * FROM inventory_item c ORDER BY c.*;
    SELECT * FROM inventory_item c ORDER BY ROW(c.*);
    

All of these `ORDER BY` clauses specify the row's composite value, resulting
in sorting the rows according to the rules described in [Section
9.24.6](functions-comparisons.html#COMPOSITE-TYPE-COMPARISON
"9.24.6. Composite Type Comparison"). However, if `inventory_item` contained a
column named `c`, the first case would be different from the others, as it
would mean to sort by that column only. Given the column names previously
shown, these queries are also equivalent to those above:

    
    
    SELECT * FROM inventory_item c ORDER BY ROW(c.name, c.supplier_id, c.price);
    SELECT * FROM inventory_item c ORDER BY (c.name, c.supplier_id, c.price);
    

(The last case uses a row constructor with the key word `ROW` omitted.)

Another special syntactical behavior associated with composite values is that
we can use _functional notation_ for extracting a field of a composite value.
The simple way to explain this is that the notations `_`field`_(_`table`_)`
and `_`table`_._`field`_` are interchangeable. For example, these queries are
equivalent:

    
    
    SELECT c.name FROM inventory_item c WHERE c.price > 1000;
    SELECT name(c) FROM inventory_item c WHERE price(c) > 1000;
    

Moreover, if we have a function that accepts a single argument of a composite
type, we can call it with either notation. These queries are all equivalent:

    
    
    SELECT somefunc(c) FROM inventory_item c;
    SELECT somefunc(c.*) FROM inventory_item c;
    SELECT c.somefunc FROM inventory_item c;
    

This equivalence between functional notation and field notation makes it
possible to use functions on composite types to implement “computed fields”.
An application using the last query above wouldn't need to be directly aware
that `somefunc` isn't a real column of the table.

### Tip

Because of this behavior, it's unwise to give a function that takes a single
composite-type argument the same name as any of the fields of that composite
type. If there is ambiguity, the field-name interpretation will be chosen if
field-name syntax is used, while the function will be chosen if function-call
syntax is used. However, PostgreSQL versions before 11 always chose the field-
name interpretation, unless the syntax of the call required it to be a
function call. One way to force the function interpretation in older versions
is to schema-qualify the function name, that is, write
`_`schema`_._`func`_(_`compositevalue`_)`.

### 8.16.6. Composite Type Input and Output Syntax #

The external text representation of a composite value consists of items that
are interpreted according to the I/O conversion rules for the individual field
types, plus decoration that indicates the composite structure. The decoration
consists of parentheses (`(` and `)`) around the whole value, plus commas
(`,`) between adjacent items. Whitespace outside the parentheses is ignored,
but within the parentheses it is considered part of the field value, and might
or might not be significant depending on the input conversion rules for the
field data type. For example, in:

    
    
    '(  42)'
    

the whitespace will be ignored if the field type is integer, but not if it is
text.

As shown previously, when writing a composite value you can write double
quotes around any individual field value. You _must_ do so if the field value
would otherwise confuse the composite-value parser. In particular, fields
containing parentheses, commas, double quotes, or backslashes must be double-
quoted. To put a double quote or backslash in a quoted composite field value,
precede it with a backslash. (Also, a pair of double quotes within a double-
quoted field value is taken to represent a double quote character, analogously
to the rules for single quotes in SQL literal strings.) Alternatively, you can
avoid quoting and use backslash-escaping to protect all data characters that
would otherwise be taken as composite syntax.

A completely empty field value (no characters at all between the commas or
parentheses) represents a NULL. To write a value that is an empty string
rather than NULL, write `""`.

The composite output routine will put double quotes around field values if
they are empty strings or contain parentheses, commas, double quotes,
backslashes, or white space. (Doing so for white space is not essential, but
aids legibility.) Double quotes and backslashes embedded in field values will
be doubled.

### Note

Remember that what you write in an SQL command will first be interpreted as a
string literal, and then as a composite. This doubles the number of
backslashes you need (assuming escape string syntax is used). For example, to
insert a `text` field containing a double quote and a backslash in a composite
value, you'd need to write:

    
    
    INSERT ... VALUES ('("\"\\")');
    

The string-literal processor removes one level of backslashes, so that what
arrives at the composite-value parser looks like `("\"\\")`. In turn, the
string fed to the `text` data type's input routine becomes `"\`. (If we were
working with a data type whose input routine also treated backslashes
specially, `bytea` for example, we might need as many as eight backslashes in
the command to get one backslash into the stored composite field.) Dollar
quoting (see [Section 4.1.2.4](sql-syntax-lexical.html#SQL-SYNTAX-DOLLAR-
QUOTING "4.1.2.4. Dollar-Quoted String Constants")) can be used to avoid the
need to double backslashes.

### Tip

The `ROW` constructor syntax is usually easier to work with than the
composite-literal syntax when writing composite values in SQL commands. In
`ROW`, individual field values are written the same way they would be written
when not members of a composite.

* * *

[Prev](arrays.html "8.15. Arrays")  | [Up](datatype.html "Chapter 8. Data Types") |  [Next](rangetypes.html "8.17. Range Types")  
---|---|---  
8.15. Arrays  | [Home](index.html "PostgreSQL 16.9 Documentation") |  8.17. Range Types  
  
## Submit correction

If you see anything in the documentation that is not correct, does not match
your experience with the particular feature or requires further clarification,
please use [this form](/account/comments/new/16/rowtypes.html/) to report a
documentation issue.

[Privacy Policy](/about/privacypolicy) | [Code of Conduct](/about/policies/coc/) | [About PostgreSQL](/about/) | [Contact](/about/contact/)  

Copyright (C) 1996-2025 The PostgreSQL Global Development Group

