[ ![PostgreSQL Elephant Logo](/media/img/about/press/elephant.png) ](/)

  * [Home](/ "Home")
  * [About](/about/ "About")
  * [Download](/download/ "Download")
  * [Documentation](/docs/ "Documentation")
  * [Community](/community/ "Community")
  * [Developers](/developer/ "Developers")
  * [Support](/support/ "Support")
  * [Donate](/about/donate/ "Donate")
  * [Your account](/account/ "Your account")

__

May 8, 2025: [ PostgreSQL 17.5, 16.9, 15.13, 14.18, and 13.21 Released! ](/about/news/postgresql-175-169-1513-1418-and-1321-released-3072/) | [ PostgreSQL 18 Beta 1 Released! ](/about/news/postgresql-18-beta-1-released-3070/)

[Documentation](/docs/ "Documentation") -> [PostgreSQL
16](/docs/16/index.html)

Supported Versions: [Current](/docs/current/spi-spi-execute-plan-extended.html
"PostgreSQL 17 - SPI_execute_plan_extended") ([17](/docs/17/spi-spi-execute-
plan-extended.html "PostgreSQL 17 - SPI_execute_plan_extended")) /
[16](/docs/16/spi-spi-execute-plan-extended.html "PostgreSQL 16 -
SPI_execute_plan_extended") / [15](/docs/15/spi-spi-execute-plan-extended.html
"PostgreSQL 15 - SPI_execute_plan_extended") / [14](/docs/14/spi-spi-execute-
plan-extended.html "PostgreSQL 14 - SPI_execute_plan_extended")

Development Versions: [18](/docs/18/spi-spi-execute-plan-extended.html
"PostgreSQL 18 - SPI_execute_plan_extended") / [devel](/docs/devel/spi-spi-
execute-plan-extended.html "PostgreSQL devel - SPI_execute_plan_extended")

__

SPI_execute_plan_extended  
---  
[Prev](spi-spi-execute-plan.html "SPI_execute_plan")  | [Up](spi-interface.html "47.1. Interface Functions") | 47.1. Interface Functions | [Home](index.html "PostgreSQL 16.9 Documentation") |  [Next](spi-spi-execute-plan-with-paramlist.html "SPI_execute_plan_with_paramlist")  
  
* * *

## SPI_execute_plan_extended

SPI_execute_plan_extended — execute a statement prepared by `SPI_prepare`

## Synopsis

    
    
    int SPI_execute_plan_extended(SPIPlanPtr _plan_ ,
                                  const SPIExecuteOptions * _options_)
    

## Description

`SPI_execute_plan_extended` executes a statement prepared by `SPI_prepare` or
one of its siblings. This function is equivalent to `SPI_execute_plan`, except
that information about the parameter values to be passed to the query is
presented differently, and additional execution-controlling options can be
passed.

Query parameter values are represented by a `ParamListInfo` struct, which is
convenient for passing down values that are already available in that format.
Dynamic parameter sets can also be used, via hook functions specified in
`ParamListInfo`.

Also, instead of always accumulating the result tuples into a `SPI_tuptable`
structure, tuples can be passed to a caller-supplied `DestReceiver` object as
they are generated by the executor. This is particularly helpful for queries
that might generate many tuples, since the data can be processed on-the-fly
instead of being accumulated in memory.

## Arguments

`SPIPlanPtr _`plan`_`

    

prepared statement (returned by `SPI_prepare`)

`const SPIExecuteOptions * _`options`_`

    

struct containing optional arguments

Callers should always zero out the entire _`options`_ struct, then fill
whichever fields they want to set. This ensures forward compatibility of code,
since any fields that are added to the struct in future will be defined to
behave backwards-compatibly if they are zero. The currently available
_`options`_ fields are:

`ParamListInfo _`params`_`

    

data structure containing query parameter types and values; NULL if none

`bool _`read_only`_`

    

`true` for read-only execution

`bool _`allow_nonatomic`_`

    

`true` allows non-atomic execution of CALL and DO statements (but this field
is ignored unless the `SPI_OPT_NONATOMIC` flag was passed to
`SPI_connect_ext`)

`bool _`must_return_tuples`_`

    

if `true`, raise error if the query is not of a kind that returns tuples (this
does not forbid the case where it happens to return zero tuples)

`uint64 _`tcount`_`

    

maximum number of rows to return, or `0` for no limit

`DestReceiver * _`dest`_`

    

`DestReceiver` object that will receive any tuples emitted by the query; if
NULL, result tuples are accumulated into a `SPI_tuptable` structure, as in
`SPI_execute_plan`

`ResourceOwner _`owner`_`

    

The resource owner that will hold a reference count on the plan while it is
executed. If NULL, CurrentResourceOwner is used. Ignored for non-saved plans,
as SPI does not acquire reference counts on those.

## Return Value

The return value is the same as for `SPI_execute_plan`.

When _`options->dest`_ is NULL, `SPI_processed` and `SPI_tuptable` are set as
in `SPI_execute_plan`. When _`options->dest`_ is not NULL, `SPI_processed` is
set to zero and `SPI_tuptable` is set to NULL. If a tuple count is required,
the caller's `DestReceiver` object must calculate it.

* * *

[Prev](spi-spi-execute-plan.html "SPI_execute_plan")  | [Up](spi-interface.html "47.1. Interface Functions") |  [Next](spi-spi-execute-plan-with-paramlist.html "SPI_execute_plan_with_paramlist")  
---|---|---  
SPI_execute_plan  | [Home](index.html "PostgreSQL 16.9 Documentation") |  SPI_execute_plan_with_paramlist  
  
## Submit correction

If you see anything in the documentation that is not correct, does not match
your experience with the particular feature or requires further clarification,
please use [this form](/account/comments/new/16/spi-spi-execute-plan-
extended.html/) to report a documentation issue.

[Privacy Policy](/about/privacypolicy) | [Code of Conduct](/about/policies/coc/) | [About PostgreSQL](/about/) | [Contact](/about/contact/)  

Copyright (C) 1996-2025 The PostgreSQL Global Development Group

