[ ![PostgreSQL Elephant Logo](/media/img/about/press/elephant.png) ](/)

  * [Home](/ "Home")
  * [About](/about/ "About")
  * [Download](/download/ "Download")
  * [Documentation](/docs/ "Documentation")
  * [Community](/community/ "Community")
  * [Developers](/developer/ "Developers")
  * [Support](/support/ "Support")
  * [Donate](/about/donate/ "Donate")
  * [Your account](/account/ "Your account")

__

May 8, 2025: [ PostgreSQL 17.5, 16.9, 15.13, 14.18, and 13.21 Released! ](/about/news/postgresql-175-169-1513-1418-and-1321-released-3072/) | [ PostgreSQL 18 Beta 1 Released! ](/about/news/postgresql-18-beta-1-released-3070/)

[Documentation](/docs/ "Documentation") -> [PostgreSQL
16](/docs/16/index.html)

Supported Versions: [Current](/docs/current/sql-alterforeigntable.html
"PostgreSQL 17 - ALTER FOREIGN TABLE") ([17](/docs/17/sql-
alterforeigntable.html "PostgreSQL 17 - ALTER FOREIGN TABLE")) /
[16](/docs/16/sql-alterforeigntable.html "PostgreSQL 16 - ALTER FOREIGN
TABLE") / [15](/docs/15/sql-alterforeigntable.html "PostgreSQL 15 - ALTER
FOREIGN TABLE") / [14](/docs/14/sql-alterforeigntable.html "PostgreSQL 14 -
ALTER FOREIGN TABLE") / [13](/docs/13/sql-alterforeigntable.html "PostgreSQL
13 - ALTER FOREIGN TABLE")

Development Versions: [18](/docs/18/sql-alterforeigntable.html "PostgreSQL 18
- ALTER FOREIGN TABLE") / [devel](/docs/devel/sql-alterforeigntable.html
"PostgreSQL devel - ALTER FOREIGN TABLE")

Unsupported versions: [12](/docs/12/sql-alterforeigntable.html "PostgreSQL 12
- ALTER FOREIGN TABLE") / [11](/docs/11/sql-alterforeigntable.html "PostgreSQL
11 - ALTER FOREIGN TABLE") / [10](/docs/10/sql-alterforeigntable.html
"PostgreSQL 10 - ALTER FOREIGN TABLE") / [9.6](/docs/9.6/sql-
alterforeigntable.html "PostgreSQL 9.6 - ALTER FOREIGN TABLE") /
[9.5](/docs/9.5/sql-alterforeigntable.html "PostgreSQL 9.5 - ALTER FOREIGN
TABLE") / [9.4](/docs/9.4/sql-alterforeigntable.html "PostgreSQL 9.4 - ALTER
FOREIGN TABLE") / [9.3](/docs/9.3/sql-alterforeigntable.html "PostgreSQL 9.3 -
ALTER FOREIGN TABLE") / [9.2](/docs/9.2/sql-alterforeigntable.html "PostgreSQL
9.2 - ALTER FOREIGN TABLE") / [9.1](/docs/9.1/sql-alterforeigntable.html
"PostgreSQL 9.1 - ALTER FOREIGN TABLE")

__

ALTER FOREIGN TABLE  
---  
[Prev](sql-alterforeigndatawrapper.html "ALTER FOREIGN DATA WRAPPER")  | [Up](sql-commands.html "SQL Commands") | SQL Commands | [Home](index.html "PostgreSQL 16.9 Documentation") |  [Next](sql-alterfunction.html "ALTER FUNCTION")  
  
* * *

## ALTER FOREIGN TABLE

ALTER FOREIGN TABLE â€” change the definition of a foreign table

## Synopsis

    
    
    ALTER FOREIGN TABLE [ IF EXISTS ] [ ONLY ] _name_ [ * ]
        _action_ [, ... ]
    ALTER FOREIGN TABLE [ IF EXISTS ] [ ONLY ] _name_ [ * ]
        RENAME [ COLUMN ] _column_name_ TO _new_column_name_
    ALTER FOREIGN TABLE [ IF EXISTS ] _name_
        RENAME TO _new_name_
    ALTER FOREIGN TABLE [ IF EXISTS ] _name_
        SET SCHEMA _new_schema_
    
    where _action_ is one of:
    
        ADD [ COLUMN ] _column_name_ _data_type_ [ COLLATE _collation_ ] [ _column_constraint_ [ ... ] ]
        DROP [ COLUMN ] [ IF EXISTS ] _column_name_ [ RESTRICT | CASCADE ]
        ALTER [ COLUMN ] _column_name_ [ SET DATA ] TYPE _data_type_ [ COLLATE _collation_ ]
        ALTER [ COLUMN ] _column_name_ SET DEFAULT _expression_
        ALTER [ COLUMN ] _column_name_ DROP DEFAULT
        ALTER [ COLUMN ] _column_name_ { SET | DROP } NOT NULL
        ALTER [ COLUMN ] _column_name_ SET STATISTICS _integer_
        ALTER [ COLUMN ] _column_name_ SET ( _attribute_option_ = _value_ [, ... ] )
        ALTER [ COLUMN ] _column_name_ RESET ( _attribute_option_ [, ... ] )
        ALTER [ COLUMN ] _column_name_ SET STORAGE { PLAIN | EXTERNAL | EXTENDED | MAIN | DEFAULT }
        ALTER [ COLUMN ] _column_name_ OPTIONS ( [ ADD | SET | DROP ] _option_ ['_value_ '] [, ... ])
        ADD _table_constraint_ [ NOT VALID ]
        VALIDATE CONSTRAINT _constraint_name_
        DROP CONSTRAINT [ IF EXISTS ]  _constraint_name_ [ RESTRICT | CASCADE ]
        DISABLE TRIGGER [ _trigger_name_ | ALL | USER ]
        ENABLE TRIGGER [ _trigger_name_ | ALL | USER ]
        ENABLE REPLICA TRIGGER _trigger_name_
        ENABLE ALWAYS TRIGGER _trigger_name_
        SET WITHOUT OIDS
        INHERIT _parent_table_
        NO INHERIT _parent_table_
        OWNER TO { _new_owner_ | CURRENT_ROLE | CURRENT_USER | SESSION_USER }
        OPTIONS ( [ ADD | SET | DROP ] _option_ ['_value_ '] [, ... ])
    

## Description

`ALTER FOREIGN TABLE` changes the definition of an existing foreign table.
There are several subforms:

`ADD COLUMN`

    

This form adds a new column to the foreign table, using the same syntax as
[`CREATE FOREIGN TABLE`](sql-createforeigntable.html "CREATE FOREIGN TABLE").
Unlike the case when adding a column to a regular table, nothing happens to
the underlying storage: this action simply declares that some new column is
now accessible through the foreign table.

`DROP COLUMN [ IF EXISTS ]`

    

This form drops a column from a foreign table. You will need to say `CASCADE`
if anything outside the table depends on the column; for example, views. If
`IF EXISTS` is specified and the column does not exist, no error is thrown. In
this case a notice is issued instead.

`SET DATA TYPE`

    

This form changes the type of a column of a foreign table. Again, this has no
effect on any underlying storage: this action simply changes the type that
PostgreSQL believes the column to have.

`SET`/`DROP DEFAULT`

    

These forms set or remove the default value for a column. Default values only
apply in subsequent `INSERT` or `UPDATE` commands; they do not cause rows
already in the table to change.

`SET`/`DROP NOT NULL`

    

Mark a column as allowing, or not allowing, null values.

`SET STATISTICS`

    

This form sets the per-column statistics-gathering target for subsequent
[`ANALYZE`](sql-analyze.html "ANALYZE") operations. See the similar form of
[`ALTER TABLE`](sql-altertable.html "ALTER TABLE") for more details.

`SET ( _`attribute_option`_ = _`value`_ [, ... ] )`  
`RESET ( _`attribute_option`_ [, ... ] )`

    

This form sets or resets per-attribute options. See the similar form of
[`ALTER TABLE`](sql-altertable.html "ALTER TABLE") for more details.

`SET STORAGE`

    

This form sets the storage mode for a column. See the similar form of [`ALTER
TABLE`](sql-altertable.html "ALTER TABLE") for more details. Note that the
storage mode has no effect unless the table's foreign-data wrapper chooses to
pay attention to it.

`ADD _`table_constraint`_ [ NOT VALID ]`

    

This form adds a new constraint to a foreign table, using the same syntax as
[`CREATE FOREIGN TABLE`](sql-createforeigntable.html "CREATE FOREIGN TABLE").
Currently only `CHECK` constraints are supported.

Unlike the case when adding a constraint to a regular table, nothing is done
to verify the constraint is correct; rather, this action simply declares that
some new condition should be assumed to hold for all rows in the foreign
table. (See the discussion in [`CREATE FOREIGN TABLE`](sql-
createforeigntable.html "CREATE FOREIGN TABLE").) If the constraint is marked
`NOT VALID`, then it isn't assumed to hold, but is only recorded for possible
future use.

`VALIDATE CONSTRAINT`

    

This form marks as valid a constraint that was previously marked as `NOT
VALID`. No action is taken to verify the constraint, but future queries will
assume that it holds.

`DROP CONSTRAINT [ IF EXISTS ]`

    

This form drops the specified constraint on a foreign table. If `IF EXISTS` is
specified and the constraint does not exist, no error is thrown. In this case
a notice is issued instead.

`DISABLE`/`ENABLE [ REPLICA | ALWAYS ] TRIGGER`
    

These forms configure the firing of trigger(s) belonging to the foreign table.
See the similar form of [`ALTER TABLE`](sql-altertable.html "ALTER TABLE") for
more details.

`SET WITHOUT OIDS`

    

Backward compatibility syntax for removing the `oid` system column. As `oid`
system columns cannot be added anymore, this never has an effect.

`INHERIT _`parent_table`_`

    

This form adds the target foreign table as a new child of the specified parent
table. See the similar form of [`ALTER TABLE`](sql-altertable.html "ALTER
TABLE") for more details.

`NO INHERIT _`parent_table`_`

    

This form removes the target foreign table from the list of children of the
specified parent table.

`OWNER`

    

This form changes the owner of the foreign table to the specified user.

`OPTIONS ( [ ADD | SET | DROP ] _`option`_ ['_`value`_ '] [, ... ] )`
    

Change options for the foreign table or one of its columns. `ADD`, `SET`, and
`DROP` specify the action to be performed. `ADD` is assumed if no operation is
explicitly specified. Duplicate option names are not allowed (although it's OK
for a table option and a column option to have the same name). Option names
and values are also validated using the foreign data wrapper library.

`RENAME`

    

The `RENAME` forms change the name of a foreign table or the name of an
individual column in a foreign table.

`SET SCHEMA`

    

This form moves the foreign table into another schema.

All the actions except `RENAME` and `SET SCHEMA` can be combined into a list
of multiple alterations to apply in parallel. For example, it is possible to
add several columns and/or alter the type of several columns in a single
command.

If the command is written as `ALTER FOREIGN TABLE IF EXISTS ...` and the
foreign table does not exist, no error is thrown. A notice is issued in this
case.

You must own the table to use `ALTER FOREIGN TABLE`. To change the schema of a
foreign table, you must also have `CREATE` privilege on the new schema. To
alter the owner, you must be able to `SET ROLE` to the new owning role, and
that role must have `CREATE` privilege on the table's schema. (These
restrictions enforce that altering the owner doesn't do anything you couldn't
do by dropping and recreating the table. However, a superuser can alter
ownership of any table anyway.) To add a column or alter a column type, you
must also have `USAGE` privilege on the data type.

## Parameters

_`name`_

    

The name (possibly schema-qualified) of an existing foreign table to alter. If
`ONLY` is specified before the table name, only that table is altered. If
`ONLY` is not specified, the table and all its descendant tables (if any) are
altered. Optionally, `*` can be specified after the table name to explicitly
indicate that descendant tables are included.

_`column_name`_

    

Name of a new or existing column.

_`new_column_name`_

    

New name for an existing column.

_`new_name`_

    

New name for the table.

_`data_type`_

    

Data type of the new column, or new data type for an existing column.

_`table_constraint`_

    

New table constraint for the foreign table.

_`constraint_name`_

    

Name of an existing constraint to drop.

`CASCADE`

    

Automatically drop objects that depend on the dropped column or constraint
(for example, views referencing the column), and in turn all objects that
depend on those objects (see [Section 5.14](ddl-depend.html "5.14.Â Dependency
Tracking")).

`RESTRICT`

    

Refuse to drop the column or constraint if there are any dependent objects.
This is the default behavior.

_`trigger_name`_

    

Name of a single trigger to disable or enable.

`ALL`

    

Disable or enable all triggers belonging to the foreign table. (This requires
superuser privilege if any of the triggers are internally generated triggers.
The core system does not add such triggers to foreign tables, but add-on code
could do so.)

`USER`

    

Disable or enable all triggers belonging to the foreign table except for
internally generated triggers.

_`parent_table`_

    

A parent table to associate or de-associate with this foreign table.

_`new_owner`_

    

The user name of the new owner of the table.

_`new_schema`_

    

The name of the schema to which the table will be moved.

## Notes

The key word `COLUMN` is noise and can be omitted.

Consistency with the foreign server is not checked when a column is added or
removed with `ADD COLUMN` or `DROP COLUMN`, a `NOT NULL` or `CHECK` constraint
is added, or a column type is changed with `SET DATA TYPE`. It is the user's
responsibility to ensure that the table definition matches the remote side.

Refer to [`CREATE FOREIGN TABLE`](sql-createforeigntable.html "CREATE FOREIGN
TABLE") for a further description of valid parameters.

## Examples

To mark a column as not-null:

    
    
    ALTER FOREIGN TABLE distributors ALTER COLUMN street SET NOT NULL;
    

To change options of a foreign table:

    
    
    ALTER FOREIGN TABLE myschema.distributors OPTIONS (ADD opt1 'value', SET opt2 'value2', DROP opt3);
    

## Compatibility

The forms `ADD`, `DROP`, and `SET DATA TYPE` conform with the SQL standard.
The other forms are PostgreSQL extensions of the SQL standard. Also, the
ability to specify more than one manipulation in a single `ALTER FOREIGN
TABLE` command is an extension.

`ALTER FOREIGN TABLE DROP COLUMN` can be used to drop the only column of a
foreign table, leaving a zero-column table. This is an extension of SQL, which
disallows zero-column foreign tables.

## See Also

[CREATE FOREIGN TABLE](sql-createforeigntable.html "CREATE FOREIGN TABLE"),
[DROP FOREIGN TABLE](sql-dropforeigntable.html "DROP FOREIGN TABLE")

* * *

[Prev](sql-alterforeigndatawrapper.html "ALTER FOREIGN DATA WRAPPER")  | [Up](sql-commands.html "SQL Commands") |  [Next](sql-alterfunction.html "ALTER FUNCTION")  
---|---|---  
ALTER FOREIGN DATA WRAPPER  | [Home](index.html "PostgreSQL 16.9 Documentation") |  ALTER FUNCTION  
  
## Submit correction

If you see anything in the documentation that is not correct, does not match
your experience with the particular feature or requires further clarification,
please use [this form](/account/comments/new/16/sql-alterforeigntable.html/)
to report a documentation issue.

[Privacy Policy](/about/privacypolicy) | [Code of Conduct](/about/policies/coc/) | [About PostgreSQL](/about/) | [Contact](/about/contact/)  

Copyright (C) 1996-2025 The PostgreSQL Global Development Group

