[ ![PostgreSQL Elephant Logo](/media/img/about/press/elephant.png) ](/)

  * [Home](/ "Home")
  * [About](/about/ "About")
  * [Download](/download/ "Download")
  * [Documentation](/docs/ "Documentation")
  * [Community](/community/ "Community")
  * [Developers](/developer/ "Developers")
  * [Support](/support/ "Support")
  * [Donate](/about/donate/ "Donate")
  * [Your account](/account/ "Your account")

__

May 8, 2025: [ PostgreSQL 17.5, 16.9, 15.13, 14.18, and 13.21 Released! ](/about/news/postgresql-175-169-1513-1418-and-1321-released-3072/) | [ PostgreSQL 18 Beta 1 Released! ](/about/news/postgresql-18-beta-1-released-3070/)

[Documentation](/docs/ "Documentation") -> [PostgreSQL
16](/docs/16/index.html)

Supported Versions: [Current](/docs/current/sql-createtable.html "PostgreSQL
17 - CREATE TABLE") ([17](/docs/17/sql-createtable.html "PostgreSQL 17 -
CREATE TABLE")) / [16](/docs/16/sql-createtable.html "PostgreSQL 16 - CREATE
TABLE") / [15](/docs/15/sql-createtable.html "PostgreSQL 15 - CREATE TABLE") /
[14](/docs/14/sql-createtable.html "PostgreSQL 14 - CREATE TABLE") /
[13](/docs/13/sql-createtable.html "PostgreSQL 13 - CREATE TABLE")

Development Versions: [18](/docs/18/sql-createtable.html "PostgreSQL 18 -
CREATE TABLE") / [devel](/docs/devel/sql-createtable.html "PostgreSQL devel -
CREATE TABLE")

Unsupported versions: [12](/docs/12/sql-createtable.html "PostgreSQL 12 -
CREATE TABLE") / [11](/docs/11/sql-createtable.html "PostgreSQL 11 - CREATE
TABLE") / [10](/docs/10/sql-createtable.html "PostgreSQL 10 - CREATE TABLE") /
[9.6](/docs/9.6/sql-createtable.html "PostgreSQL 9.6 - CREATE TABLE") /
[9.5](/docs/9.5/sql-createtable.html "PostgreSQL 9.5 - CREATE TABLE") /
[9.4](/docs/9.4/sql-createtable.html "PostgreSQL 9.4 - CREATE TABLE") /
[9.3](/docs/9.3/sql-createtable.html "PostgreSQL 9.3 - CREATE TABLE") /
[9.2](/docs/9.2/sql-createtable.html "PostgreSQL 9.2 - CREATE TABLE") /
[9.1](/docs/9.1/sql-createtable.html "PostgreSQL 9.1 - CREATE TABLE") /
[9.0](/docs/9.0/sql-createtable.html "PostgreSQL 9.0 - CREATE TABLE") /
[8.4](/docs/8.4/sql-createtable.html "PostgreSQL 8.4 - CREATE TABLE") /
[8.3](/docs/8.3/sql-createtable.html "PostgreSQL 8.3 - CREATE TABLE") /
[8.2](/docs/8.2/sql-createtable.html "PostgreSQL 8.2 - CREATE TABLE") /
[8.1](/docs/8.1/sql-createtable.html "PostgreSQL 8.1 - CREATE TABLE") /
[8.0](/docs/8.0/sql-createtable.html "PostgreSQL 8.0 - CREATE TABLE") /
[7.4](/docs/7.4/sql-createtable.html "PostgreSQL 7.4 - CREATE TABLE") /
[7.3](/docs/7.3/sql-createtable.html "PostgreSQL 7.3 - CREATE TABLE") /
[7.2](/docs/7.2/sql-createtable.html "PostgreSQL 7.2 - CREATE TABLE") /
[7.1](/docs/7.1/sql-createtable.html "PostgreSQL 7.1 - CREATE TABLE")

__

CREATE TABLE  
---  
[Prev](sql-createsubscription.html "CREATE SUBSCRIPTION")  | [Up](sql-commands.html "SQL Commands") | SQL Commands | [Home](index.html "PostgreSQL 16.9 Documentation") |  [Next](sql-createtableas.html "CREATE TABLE AS")  
  
* * *

## CREATE TABLE

CREATE TABLE — define a new table

## Synopsis

    
    
    CREATE [ [ GLOBAL | LOCAL ] { TEMPORARY | TEMP } | UNLOGGED ] TABLE [ IF NOT EXISTS ] _table_name_ ( [
      { _column_name_ _data_type_ [ STORAGE { PLAIN | EXTERNAL | EXTENDED | MAIN | DEFAULT } ] [ COMPRESSION _compression_method_ ] [ COLLATE _collation_ ] [ _column_constraint_ [ ... ] ]
        | _table_constraint_
        | LIKE _source_table_ [ _like_option_ ... ] }
        [, ... ]
    ] )
    [ INHERITS ( _parent_table_ [, ... ] ) ]
    [ PARTITION BY { RANGE | LIST | HASH } ( { _column_name_ | ( _expression_ ) } [ COLLATE _collation_ ] [ _opclass_ ] [, ... ] ) ]
    [ USING _method_ ]
    [ WITH ( _storage_parameter_ [= _value_] [, ... ] ) | WITHOUT OIDS ]
    [ ON COMMIT { PRESERVE ROWS | DELETE ROWS | DROP } ]
    [ TABLESPACE _tablespace_name_ ]
    
    CREATE [ [ GLOBAL | LOCAL ] { TEMPORARY | TEMP } | UNLOGGED ] TABLE [ IF NOT EXISTS ] _table_name_
        OF _type_name_ [ (
      { _column_name_ [ WITH OPTIONS ] [ _column_constraint_ [ ... ] ]
        | _table_constraint_ }
        [, ... ]
    ) ]
    [ PARTITION BY { RANGE | LIST | HASH } ( { _column_name_ | ( _expression_ ) } [ COLLATE _collation_ ] [ _opclass_ ] [, ... ] ) ]
    [ USING _method_ ]
    [ WITH ( _storage_parameter_ [= _value_] [, ... ] ) | WITHOUT OIDS ]
    [ ON COMMIT { PRESERVE ROWS | DELETE ROWS | DROP } ]
    [ TABLESPACE _tablespace_name_ ]
    
    CREATE [ [ GLOBAL | LOCAL ] { TEMPORARY | TEMP } | UNLOGGED ] TABLE [ IF NOT EXISTS ] _table_name_
        PARTITION OF _parent_table_ [ (
      { _column_name_ [ WITH OPTIONS ] [ _column_constraint_ [ ... ] ]
        | _table_constraint_ }
        [, ... ]
    ) ] { FOR VALUES _partition_bound_spec_ | DEFAULT }
    [ PARTITION BY { RANGE | LIST | HASH } ( { _column_name_ | ( _expression_ ) } [ COLLATE _collation_ ] [ _opclass_ ] [, ... ] ) ]
    [ USING _method_ ]
    [ WITH ( _storage_parameter_ [= _value_] [, ... ] ) | WITHOUT OIDS ]
    [ ON COMMIT { PRESERVE ROWS | DELETE ROWS | DROP } ]
    [ TABLESPACE _tablespace_name_ ]
    
    where _column_constraint_ is:
    
    [ CONSTRAINT _constraint_name_ ]
    { NOT NULL |
      NULL |
      CHECK ( _expression_ ) [ NO INHERIT ] |
      DEFAULT _default_expr_ |
      GENERATED ALWAYS AS ( _generation_expr_ ) STORED |
      GENERATED { ALWAYS | BY DEFAULT } AS IDENTITY [ ( _sequence_options_ ) ] |
      UNIQUE [ NULLS [ NOT ] DISTINCT ] _index_parameters_ |
      PRIMARY KEY _index_parameters_ |
      REFERENCES _reftable_ [ ( _refcolumn_ ) ] [ MATCH FULL | MATCH PARTIAL | MATCH SIMPLE ]
        [ ON DELETE _referential_action_ ] [ ON UPDATE _referential_action_ ] }
    [ DEFERRABLE | NOT DEFERRABLE ] [ INITIALLY DEFERRED | INITIALLY IMMEDIATE ]
    
    and _table_constraint_ is:
    
    [ CONSTRAINT _constraint_name_ ]
    { CHECK ( _expression_ ) [ NO INHERIT ] |
      UNIQUE [ NULLS [ NOT ] DISTINCT ] ( _column_name_ [, ... ] ) _index_parameters_ |
      PRIMARY KEY ( _column_name_ [, ... ] ) _index_parameters_ |
      EXCLUDE [ USING _index_method_ ] ( _exclude_element_ WITH _operator_ [, ... ] ) _index_parameters_ [ WHERE ( _predicate_ ) ] |
      FOREIGN KEY ( _column_name_ [, ... ] ) REFERENCES _reftable_ [ ( _refcolumn_ [, ... ] ) ]
        [ MATCH FULL | MATCH PARTIAL | MATCH SIMPLE ] [ ON DELETE _referential_action_ ] [ ON UPDATE _referential_action_ ] }
    [ DEFERRABLE | NOT DEFERRABLE ] [ INITIALLY DEFERRED | INITIALLY IMMEDIATE ]
    
    and _like_option_ is:
    
    { INCLUDING | EXCLUDING } { COMMENTS | COMPRESSION | CONSTRAINTS | DEFAULTS | GENERATED | IDENTITY | INDEXES | STATISTICS | STORAGE | ALL }
    
    and _partition_bound_spec_ is:
    
    IN ( _partition_bound_expr_ [, ...] ) |
    FROM ( { _partition_bound_expr_ | MINVALUE | MAXVALUE } [, ...] )
      TO ( { _partition_bound_expr_ | MINVALUE | MAXVALUE } [, ...] ) |
    WITH ( MODULUS _numeric_literal_ , REMAINDER _numeric_literal_ )
    
    _index_parameters_ in UNIQUE, PRIMARY KEY, and EXCLUDE constraints are:
    
    [ INCLUDE ( _column_name_ [, ... ] ) ]
    [ WITH ( _storage_parameter_ [= _value_] [, ... ] ) ]
    [ USING INDEX TABLESPACE _tablespace_name_ ]
    
    _exclude_element_ in an EXCLUDE constraint is:
    
    { _column_name_ | ( _expression_ ) } [ COLLATE _collation_ ] [ _opclass_ [ ( _opclass_parameter_ = _value_ [, ... ] ) ] ] [ ASC | DESC ] [ NULLS { FIRST | LAST } ]
    
    _referential_action_ in a FOREIGN KEY/REFERENCES constraint is:
    
    { NO ACTION | RESTRICT | CASCADE | SET NULL [ ( _column_name_ [, ... ] ) ] | SET DEFAULT [ ( _column_name_ [, ... ] ) ] }
    

## Description

`CREATE TABLE` will create a new, initially empty table in the current
database. The table will be owned by the user issuing the command.

If a schema name is given (for example, `CREATE TABLE myschema.mytable ...`)
then the table is created in the specified schema. Otherwise it is created in
the current schema. Temporary tables exist in a special schema, so a schema
name cannot be given when creating a temporary table. The name of the table
must be distinct from the name of any other relation (table, sequence, index,
view, materialized view, or foreign table) in the same schema.

`CREATE TABLE` also automatically creates a data type that represents the
composite type corresponding to one row of the table. Therefore, tables cannot
have the same name as any existing data type in the same schema.

The optional constraint clauses specify constraints (tests) that new or
updated rows must satisfy for an insert or update operation to succeed. A
constraint is an SQL object that helps define the set of valid values in the
table in various ways.

There are two ways to define constraints: table constraints and column
constraints. A column constraint is defined as part of a column definition. A
table constraint definition is not tied to a particular column, and it can
encompass more than one column. Every column constraint can also be written as
a table constraint; a column constraint is only a notational convenience for
use when the constraint only affects one column.

To be able to create a table, you must have `USAGE` privilege on all column
types or the type in the `OF` clause, respectively.

## Parameters

`TEMPORARY` or `TEMP` #

    

If specified, the table is created as a temporary table. Temporary tables are
automatically dropped at the end of a session, or optionally at the end of the
current transaction (see `ON COMMIT` below). The default search_path includes
the temporary schema first and so identically named existing permanent tables
are not chosen for new plans while the temporary table exists, unless they are
referenced with schema-qualified names. Any indexes created on a temporary
table are automatically temporary as well.

The [autovacuum daemon](routine-vacuuming.html#AUTOVACUUM "25.1.6. The
Autovacuum Daemon") cannot access and therefore cannot vacuum or analyze
temporary tables. For this reason, appropriate vacuum and analyze operations
should be performed via session SQL commands. For example, if a temporary
table is going to be used in complex queries, it is wise to run `ANALYZE` on
the temporary table after it is populated.

Optionally, `GLOBAL` or `LOCAL` can be written before `TEMPORARY` or `TEMP`.
This presently makes no difference in PostgreSQL and is deprecated; see
[Compatibility](sql-createtable.html#SQL-CREATETABLE-COMPATIBILITY
"Compatibility") below.

`UNLOGGED` #

    

If specified, the table is created as an unlogged table. Data written to
unlogged tables is not written to the write-ahead log (see [Chapter
30](wal.html "Chapter 30. Reliability and the Write-Ahead Log")), which makes
them considerably faster than ordinary tables. However, they are not crash-
safe: an unlogged table is automatically truncated after a crash or unclean
shutdown. The contents of an unlogged table are also not replicated to standby
servers. Any indexes created on an unlogged table are automatically unlogged
as well.

If this is specified, any sequences created together with the unlogged table
(for identity or serial columns) are also created as unlogged.

`IF NOT EXISTS` #

    

Do not throw an error if a relation with the same name already exists. A
notice is issued in this case. Note that there is no guarantee that the
existing relation is anything like the one that would have been created.

_`table_name`_ #

    

The name (optionally schema-qualified) of the table to be created.

`OF _`type_name`_` #

    

Creates a _typed table_ , which takes its structure from the specified
composite type (name optionally schema-qualified). A typed table is tied to
its type; for example the table will be dropped if the type is dropped (with
`DROP TYPE ... CASCADE`).

When a typed table is created, then the data types of the columns are
determined by the underlying composite type and are not specified by the
`CREATE TABLE` command. But the `CREATE TABLE` command can add defaults and
constraints to the table and can specify storage parameters.

_`column_name`_ #

    

The name of a column to be created in the new table.

_`data_type`_ #

    

The data type of the column. This can include array specifiers. For more
information on the data types supported by PostgreSQL, refer to [Chapter
8](datatype.html "Chapter 8. Data Types").

`COLLATE _`collation`_` #

    

The `COLLATE` clause assigns a collation to the column (which must be of a
collatable data type). If not specified, the column data type's default
collation is used.

`STORAGE { PLAIN | EXTERNAL | EXTENDED | MAIN | DEFAULT }` #
    

This form sets the storage mode for the column. This controls whether this
column is held inline or in a secondary TOAST table, and whether the data
should be compressed or not. `PLAIN` must be used for fixed-length values such
as `integer` and is inline, uncompressed. `MAIN` is for inline, compressible
data. `EXTERNAL` is for external, uncompressed data, and `EXTENDED` is for
external, compressed data. Writing `DEFAULT` sets the storage mode to the
default mode for the column's data type. `EXTENDED` is the default for most
data types that support non-`PLAIN` storage. Use of `EXTERNAL` will make
substring operations on very large `text` and `bytea` values run faster, at
the penalty of increased storage space. See [Section 73.2](storage-toast.html
"73.2. TOAST") for more information.

`COMPRESSION _`compression_method`_` #

    

The `COMPRESSION` clause sets the compression method for the column.
Compression is supported only for variable-width data types, and is used only
when the column's storage mode is `main` or `extended`. (See [ALTER
TABLE](sql-altertable.html "ALTER TABLE") for information on column storage
modes.) Setting this property for a partitioned table has no direct effect,
because such tables have no storage of their own, but the configured value
will be inherited by newly-created partitions. The supported compression
methods are `pglz` and `lz4`. (`lz4` is available only if `--with-lz4` was
used when building PostgreSQL.) In addition, _`compression_method`_ can be
`default` to explicitly specify the default behavior, which is to consult the
[default_toast_compression](runtime-config-client.html#GUC-DEFAULT-TOAST-
COMPRESSION) setting at the time of data insertion to determine the method to
use.

`INHERITS ( _`parent_table`_ [, ... ] )` #

    

The optional `INHERITS` clause specifies a list of tables from which the new
table automatically inherits all columns. Parent tables can be plain tables or
foreign tables.

Use of `INHERITS` creates a persistent relationship between the new child
table and its parent table(s). Schema modifications to the parent(s) normally
propagate to children as well, and by default the data of the child table is
included in scans of the parent(s).

If the same column name exists in more than one parent table, an error is
reported unless the data types of the columns match in each of the parent
tables. If there is no conflict, then the duplicate columns are merged to form
a single column in the new table. If the column name list of the new table
contains a column name that is also inherited, the data type must likewise
match the inherited column(s), and the column definitions are merged into one.
If the new table explicitly specifies a default value for the column, this
default overrides any defaults from inherited declarations of the column.
Otherwise, any parents that specify default values for the column must all
specify the same default, or an error will be reported.

`CHECK` constraints are merged in essentially the same way as columns: if
multiple parent tables and/or the new table definition contain identically-
named `CHECK` constraints, these constraints must all have the same check
expression, or an error will be reported. Constraints having the same name and
expression will be merged into one copy. A constraint marked `NO INHERIT` in a
parent will not be considered. Notice that an unnamed `CHECK` constraint in
the new table will never be merged, since a unique name will always be chosen
for it.

Column `STORAGE` settings are also copied from parent tables.

If a column in the parent table is an identity column, that property is not
inherited. A column in the child table can be declared identity column if
desired.

`PARTITION BY { RANGE | LIST | HASH } ( { _`column_name`_ | ( _`expression`_ ) } [ _`opclass`_ ] [, ...] )` #
    

The optional `PARTITION BY` clause specifies a strategy of partitioning the
table. The table thus created is called a _partitioned_ table. The
parenthesized list of columns or expressions forms the _partition key_ for the
table. When using range or hash partitioning, the partition key can include
multiple columns or expressions (up to 32, but this limit can be altered when
building PostgreSQL), but for list partitioning, the partition key must
consist of a single column or expression.

Range and list partitioning require a btree operator class, while hash
partitioning requires a hash operator class. If no operator class is specified
explicitly, the default operator class of the appropriate type will be used;
if no default operator class exists, an error will be raised. When hash
partitioning is used, the operator class used must implement support function
2 (see [Section 38.16.3](xindex.html#XINDEX-SUPPORT "38.16.3. Index Method
Support Routines") for details).

A partitioned table is divided into sub-tables (called partitions), which are
created using separate `CREATE TABLE` commands. The partitioned table is
itself empty. A data row inserted into the table is routed to a partition
based on the value of columns or expressions in the partition key. If no
existing partition matches the values in the new row, an error will be
reported.

Partitioned tables do not support `EXCLUDE` constraints; however, you can
define these constraints on individual partitions.

See [Section 5.11](ddl-partitioning.html "5.11. Table Partitioning") for more
discussion on table partitioning.

`PARTITION OF _`parent_table`_ { FOR VALUES _`partition_bound_spec`_ | DEFAULT }` #
    

Creates the table as a _partition_ of the specified parent table. The table
can be created either as a partition for specific values using `FOR VALUES` or
as a default partition using `DEFAULT`. Any indexes, constraints and user-
defined row-level triggers that exist in the parent table are cloned on the
new partition.

The _`partition_bound_spec`_ must correspond to the partitioning method and
partition key of the parent table, and must not overlap with any existing
partition of that parent. The form with `IN` is used for list partitioning,
the form with `FROM` and `TO` is used for range partitioning, and the form
with `WITH` is used for hash partitioning.

_`partition_bound_expr`_ is any variable-free expression (subqueries, window
functions, aggregate functions, and set-returning functions are not allowed).
Its data type must match the data type of the corresponding partition key
column. The expression is evaluated once at table creation time, so it can
even contain volatile expressions such as ``CURRENT_TIMESTAMP``.

When creating a list partition, `NULL` can be specified to signify that the
partition allows the partition key column to be null. However, there cannot be
more than one such list partition for a given parent table. `NULL` cannot be
specified for range partitions.

When creating a range partition, the lower bound specified with `FROM` is an
inclusive bound, whereas the upper bound specified with `TO` is an exclusive
bound. That is, the values specified in the `FROM` list are valid values of
the corresponding partition key columns for this partition, whereas those in
the `TO` list are not. Note that this statement must be understood according
to the rules of row-wise comparison ([Section 9.24.5](functions-
comparisons.html#ROW-WISE-COMPARISON "9.24.5. Row Constructor Comparison")).
For example, given `PARTITION BY RANGE (x,y)`, a partition bound `FROM (1, 2)
TO (3, 4)` allows `x=1` with any `y>=2`, `x=2` with any non-null `y`, and
`x=3` with any `y<4`.

The special values `MINVALUE` and `MAXVALUE` may be used when creating a range
partition to indicate that there is no lower or upper bound on the column's
value. For example, a partition defined using `FROM (MINVALUE) TO (10)` allows
any values less than 10, and a partition defined using `FROM (10) TO
(MAXVALUE)` allows any values greater than or equal to 10.

When creating a range partition involving more than one column, it can also
make sense to use `MAXVALUE` as part of the lower bound, and `MINVALUE` as
part of the upper bound. For example, a partition defined using `FROM (0,
MAXVALUE) TO (10, MAXVALUE)` allows any rows where the first partition key
column is greater than 0 and less than or equal to 10. Similarly, a partition
defined using `FROM ('a', MINVALUE) TO ('b', MINVALUE)` allows any rows where
the first partition key column starts with "a".

Note that if `MINVALUE` or `MAXVALUE` is used for one column of a partitioning
bound, the same value must be used for all subsequent columns. For example,
`(10, MINVALUE, 0)` is not a valid bound; you should write `(10, MINVALUE,
MINVALUE)`.

Also note that some element types, such as `timestamp`, have a notion of
"infinity", which is just another value that can be stored. This is different
from `MINVALUE` and `MAXVALUE`, which are not real values that can be stored,
but rather they are ways of saying that the value is unbounded. `MAXVALUE` can
be thought of as being greater than any other value, including "infinity" and
`MINVALUE` as being less than any other value, including "minus infinity".
Thus the range `FROM ('infinity') TO (MAXVALUE)` is not an empty range; it
allows precisely one value to be stored — "infinity".

If `DEFAULT` is specified, the table will be created as the default partition
of the parent table. This option is not available for hash-partitioned tables.
A partition key value not fitting into any other partition of the given parent
will be routed to the default partition.

When a table has an existing `DEFAULT` partition and a new partition is added
to it, the default partition must be scanned to verify that it does not
contain any rows which properly belong in the new partition. If the default
partition contains a large number of rows, this may be slow. The scan will be
skipped if the default partition is a foreign table or if it has a constraint
which proves that it cannot contain rows which should be placed in the new
partition.

When creating a hash partition, a modulus and remainder must be specified. The
modulus must be a positive integer, and the remainder must be a non-negative
integer less than the modulus. Typically, when initially setting up a hash-
partitioned table, you should choose a modulus equal to the number of
partitions and assign every table the same modulus and a different remainder
(see examples, below). However, it is not required that every partition have
the same modulus, only that every modulus which occurs among the partitions of
a hash-partitioned table is a factor of the next larger modulus. This allows
the number of partitions to be increased incrementally without needing to move
all the data at once. For example, suppose you have a hash-partitioned table
with 8 partitions, each of which has modulus 8, but find it necessary to
increase the number of partitions to 16. You can detach one of the modulus-8
partitions, create two new modulus-16 partitions covering the same portion of
the key space (one with a remainder equal to the remainder of the detached
partition, and the other with a remainder equal to that value plus 8), and
repopulate them with data. You can then repeat this -- perhaps at a later time
-- for each modulus-8 partition until none remain. While this may still
involve a large amount of data movement at each step, it is still better than
having to create a whole new table and move all the data at once.

A partition must have the same column names and types as the partitioned table
to which it belongs. Modifications to the column names or types of a
partitioned table will automatically propagate to all partitions. `CHECK`
constraints will be inherited automatically by every partition, but an
individual partition may specify additional `CHECK` constraints; additional
constraints with the same name and condition as in the parent will be merged
with the parent constraint. Defaults may be specified separately for each
partition. But note that a partition's default value is not applied when
inserting a tuple through a partitioned table.

Rows inserted into a partitioned table will be automatically routed to the
correct partition. If no suitable partition exists, an error will occur.

Operations such as `TRUNCATE` which normally affect a table and all of its
inheritance children will cascade to all partitions, but may also be performed
on an individual partition.

Note that creating a partition using `PARTITION OF` requires taking an `ACCESS
EXCLUSIVE` lock on the parent partitioned table. Likewise, dropping a
partition with `DROP TABLE` requires taking an `ACCESS EXCLUSIVE` lock on the
parent table. It is possible to use [`ALTER TABLE ATTACH/DETACH
PARTITION`](sql-altertable.html "ALTER TABLE") to perform these operations
with a weaker lock, thus reducing interference with concurrent operations on
the partitioned table.

`LIKE _`source_table`_ [ _`like_option`_ ... ]` #

    

The `LIKE` clause specifies a table from which the new table automatically
copies all column names, their data types, and their not-null constraints.

Unlike `INHERITS`, the new table and original table are completely decoupled
after creation is complete. Changes to the original table will not be applied
to the new table, and it is not possible to include data of the new table in
scans of the original table.

Also unlike `INHERITS`, columns and constraints copied by `LIKE` are not
merged with similarly named columns and constraints. If the same name is
specified explicitly or in another `LIKE` clause, an error is signaled.

The optional _`like_option`_ clauses specify which additional properties of
the original table to copy. Specifying `INCLUDING` copies the property,
specifying `EXCLUDING` omits the property. `EXCLUDING` is the default. If
multiple specifications are made for the same kind of object, the last one is
used. The available options are:

`INCLUDING COMMENTS` #

    

Comments for the copied columns, constraints, and indexes will be copied. The
default behavior is to exclude comments, resulting in the copied columns and
constraints in the new table having no comments.

`INCLUDING COMPRESSION` #

    

Compression method of the columns will be copied. The default behavior is to
exclude compression methods, resulting in columns having the default
compression method.

`INCLUDING CONSTRAINTS` #

    

`CHECK` constraints will be copied. No distinction is made between column
constraints and table constraints. Not-null constraints are always copied to
the new table.

`INCLUDING DEFAULTS` #

    

Default expressions for the copied column definitions will be copied.
Otherwise, default expressions are not copied, resulting in the copied columns
in the new table having null defaults. Note that copying defaults that call
database-modification functions, such as `nextval`, may create a functional
linkage between the original and new tables.

`INCLUDING GENERATED` #

    

Any generation expressions of copied column definitions will be copied. By
default, new columns will be regular base columns.

`INCLUDING IDENTITY` #

    

Any identity specifications of copied column definitions will be copied. A new
sequence is created for each identity column of the new table, separate from
the sequences associated with the old table.

`INCLUDING INDEXES` #

    

Indexes, `PRIMARY KEY`, `UNIQUE`, and `EXCLUDE` constraints on the original
table will be created on the new table. Names for the new indexes and
constraints are chosen according to the default rules, regardless of how the
originals were named. (This behavior avoids possible duplicate-name failures
for the new indexes.)

`INCLUDING STATISTICS` #

    

Extended statistics are copied to the new table.

`INCLUDING STORAGE` #

    

`STORAGE` settings for the copied column definitions will be copied. The
default behavior is to exclude `STORAGE` settings, resulting in the copied
columns in the new table having type-specific default settings. For more on
`STORAGE` settings, see [Section 73.2](storage-toast.html "73.2. TOAST").

`INCLUDING ALL` #

    

`INCLUDING ALL` is an abbreviated form selecting all the available individual
options. (It could be useful to write individual `EXCLUDING` clauses after
`INCLUDING ALL` to select all but some specific options.)

The `LIKE` clause can also be used to copy column definitions from views,
foreign tables, or composite types. Inapplicable options (e.g., `INCLUDING
INDEXES` from a view) are ignored.

`CONSTRAINT _`constraint_name`_` #

    

An optional name for a column or table constraint. If the constraint is
violated, the constraint name is present in error messages, so constraint
names like `col must be positive` can be used to communicate helpful
constraint information to client applications. (Double-quotes are needed to
specify constraint names that contain spaces.) If a constraint name is not
specified, the system generates a name.

`NOT NULL` #

    

The column is not allowed to contain null values.

`NULL` #

    

The column is allowed to contain null values. This is the default.

This clause is only provided for compatibility with non-standard SQL
databases. Its use is discouraged in new applications.

`CHECK ( _`expression`_ ) [ NO INHERIT ]` #

    

The `CHECK` clause specifies an expression producing a Boolean result which
new or updated rows must satisfy for an insert or update operation to succeed.
Expressions evaluating to TRUE or UNKNOWN succeed. Should any row of an insert
or update operation produce a FALSE result, an error exception is raised and
the insert or update does not alter the database. A check constraint specified
as a column constraint should reference that column's value only, while an
expression appearing in a table constraint can reference multiple columns.

Currently, `CHECK` expressions cannot contain subqueries nor refer to
variables other than columns of the current row (see [Section 5.4.1](ddl-
constraints.html#DDL-CONSTRAINTS-CHECK-CONSTRAINTS "5.4.1. Check
Constraints")). The system column `tableoid` may be referenced, but not any
other system column.

A constraint marked with `NO INHERIT` will not propagate to child tables.

When a table has multiple `CHECK` constraints, they will be tested for each
row in alphabetical order by name, after checking `NOT NULL` constraints.
(PostgreSQL versions before 9.5 did not honor any particular firing order for
`CHECK` constraints.)

`DEFAULT _`default_expr`_` #

    

The `DEFAULT` clause assigns a default data value for the column whose column
definition it appears within. The value is any variable-free expression (in
particular, cross-references to other columns in the current table are not
allowed). Subqueries are not allowed either. The data type of the default
expression must match the data type of the column.

The default expression will be used in any insert operation that does not
specify a value for the column. If there is no default for a column, then the
default is null.

`GENERATED ALWAYS AS ( _`generation_expr`_ ) STORED` #

    

This clause creates the column as a _generated column_. The column cannot be
written to, and when read the result of the specified expression will be
returned.

The keyword `STORED` is required to signify that the column will be computed
on write and will be stored on disk.

The generation expression can refer to other columns in the table, but not
other generated columns. Any functions and operators used must be immutable.
References to other tables are not allowed.

`GENERATED { ALWAYS | BY DEFAULT } AS IDENTITY [ ( _`sequence_options`_ ) ]` #
    

This clause creates the column as an _identity column_. It will have an
implicit sequence attached to it and in newly-inserted rows the column will
automatically have values from the sequence assigned to it. Such a column is
implicitly `NOT NULL`.

The clauses `ALWAYS` and `BY DEFAULT` determine how explicitly user-specified
values are handled in `INSERT` and `UPDATE` commands.

In an `INSERT` command, if `ALWAYS` is selected, a user-specified value is
only accepted if the `INSERT` statement specifies `OVERRIDING SYSTEM VALUE`.
If `BY DEFAULT` is selected, then the user-specified value takes precedence.
See [INSERT](sql-insert.html "INSERT") for details. (In the `COPY` command,
user-specified values are always used regardless of this setting.)

In an `UPDATE` command, if `ALWAYS` is selected, any update of the column to
any value other than `DEFAULT` will be rejected. If `BY DEFAULT` is selected,
the column can be updated normally. (There is no `OVERRIDING` clause for the
`UPDATE` command.)

The optional _`sequence_options`_ clause can be used to override the
parameters of the sequence. The available options include those shown for
[CREATE SEQUENCE](sql-createsequence.html "CREATE SEQUENCE"), plus `SEQUENCE
NAME _`name`_`, `LOGGED`, and `UNLOGGED`, which allow selection of the name
and persistence level of the sequence. Without `SEQUENCE NAME`, the system
chooses an unused name for the sequence. Without `LOGGED` or `UNLOGGED`, the
sequence will have the same persistence level as the table.

`UNIQUE [ NULLS [ NOT ] DISTINCT ]` (column constraint)  
`UNIQUE [ NULLS [ NOT ] DISTINCT ] ( _`column_name`_ [, ... ] )` [ `INCLUDE (
_`column_name`_ [, ...])` ] (table constraint) #

    

The `UNIQUE` constraint specifies that a group of one or more columns of a
table can contain only unique values. The behavior of a unique table
constraint is the same as that of a unique column constraint, with the
additional capability to span multiple columns. The constraint therefore
enforces that any two rows must differ in at least one of these columns.

For the purpose of a unique constraint, null values are not considered equal,
unless `NULLS NOT DISTINCT` is specified.

Each unique constraint should name a set of columns that is different from the
set of columns named by any other unique or primary key constraint defined for
the table. (Otherwise, redundant unique constraints will be discarded.)

When establishing a unique constraint for a multi-level partition hierarchy,
all the columns in the partition key of the target partitioned table, as well
as those of all its descendant partitioned tables, must be included in the
constraint definition.

Adding a unique constraint will automatically create a unique btree index on
the column or group of columns used in the constraint.

The optional `INCLUDE` clause adds to that index one or more columns that are
simply “payload”: uniqueness is not enforced on them, and the index cannot be
searched on the basis of those columns. However they can be retrieved by an
index-only scan. Note that although the constraint is not enforced on included
columns, it still depends on them. Consequently, some operations on such
columns (e.g., `DROP COLUMN`) can cause cascaded constraint and index
deletion.

`PRIMARY KEY` (column constraint)  
`PRIMARY KEY ( _`column_name`_ [, ... ] )` [ `INCLUDE ( _`column_name`_ [,
...])` ] (table constraint) #

    

The `PRIMARY KEY` constraint specifies that a column or columns of a table can
contain only unique (non-duplicate), nonnull values. Only one primary key can
be specified for a table, whether as a column constraint or a table
constraint.

The primary key constraint should name a set of columns that is different from
the set of columns named by any unique constraint defined for the same table.
(Otherwise, the unique constraint is redundant and will be discarded.)

`PRIMARY KEY` enforces the same data constraints as a combination of `UNIQUE`
and `NOT NULL`. However, identifying a set of columns as the primary key also
provides metadata about the design of the schema, since a primary key implies
that other tables can rely on this set of columns as a unique identifier for
rows.

When placed on a partitioned table, `PRIMARY KEY` constraints share the
restrictions previously described for `UNIQUE` constraints.

Adding a `PRIMARY KEY` constraint will automatically create a unique btree
index on the column or group of columns used in the constraint.

The optional `INCLUDE` clause adds to that index one or more columns that are
simply “payload”: uniqueness is not enforced on them, and the index cannot be
searched on the basis of those columns. However they can be retrieved by an
index-only scan. Note that although the constraint is not enforced on included
columns, it still depends on them. Consequently, some operations on such
columns (e.g., `DROP COLUMN`) can cause cascaded constraint and index
deletion.

`EXCLUDE [ USING _`index_method`_ ] ( _`exclude_element`_ WITH _`operator`_ [,
... ] ) _`index_parameters`_ [ WHERE ( _`predicate`_ ) ]` #

    

The `EXCLUDE` clause defines an exclusion constraint, which guarantees that if
any two rows are compared on the specified column(s) or expression(s) using
the specified operator(s), not all of these comparisons will return `TRUE`. If
all of the specified operators test for equality, this is equivalent to a
`UNIQUE` constraint, although an ordinary unique constraint will be faster.
However, exclusion constraints can specify constraints that are more general
than simple equality. For example, you can specify a constraint that no two
rows in the table contain overlapping circles (see [Section 8.8](datatype-
geometric.html "8.8. Geometric Types")) by using the `&&` operator. The
operator(s) are required to be commutative.

Exclusion constraints are implemented using an index, so each specified
operator must be associated with an appropriate operator class (see [Section
11.10](indexes-opclass.html "11.10. Operator Classes and Operator Families"))
for the index access method _`index_method`_. Each _`exclude_element`_ defines
a column of the index, so it can optionally specify a collation, an operator
class, operator class parameters, and/or ordering options; these are described
fully under [CREATE INDEX](sql-createindex.html "CREATE INDEX").

The access method must support `amgettuple` (see [Chapter 64](indexam.html
"Chapter 64. Index Access Method Interface Definition")); at present this
means GIN cannot be used. Although it's allowed, there is little point in
using B-tree or hash indexes with an exclusion constraint, because this does
nothing that an ordinary unique constraint doesn't do better. So in practice
the access method will always be GiST or SP-GiST.

The _`predicate`_ allows you to specify an exclusion constraint on a subset of
the table; internally this creates a partial index. Note that parentheses are
required around the predicate.

`REFERENCES _`reftable`_ [ ( _`refcolumn`_ ) ] [ MATCH _`matchtype`_ ] [ ON
DELETE _`referential_action`_ ] [ ON UPDATE _`referential_action`_ ]` (column
constraint)  
`FOREIGN KEY ( _`column_name`_ [, ... ] ) REFERENCES _`reftable`_ [ (
_`refcolumn`_ [, ... ] ) ] [ MATCH _`matchtype`_ ] [ ON DELETE
_`referential_action`_ ] [ ON UPDATE _`referential_action`_ ]` (table
constraint) #

    

These clauses specify a foreign key constraint, which requires that a group of
one or more columns of the new table must only contain values that match
values in the referenced column(s) of some row of the referenced table. If the
_`refcolumn`_ list is omitted, the primary key of the _`reftable`_ is used.
Otherwise, the _`refcolumn`_ list must refer to the columns of a non-
deferrable unique or primary key constraint or be the columns of a non-partial
unique index. The user must have `REFERENCES` permission on the referenced
table (either the whole table, or the specific referenced columns). The
addition of a foreign key constraint requires a `SHARE ROW EXCLUSIVE` lock on
the referenced table. Note that foreign key constraints cannot be defined
between temporary tables and permanent tables.

A value inserted into the referencing column(s) is matched against the values
of the referenced table and referenced columns using the given match type.
There are three match types: `MATCH FULL`, `MATCH PARTIAL`, and `MATCH SIMPLE`
(which is the default). `MATCH FULL` will not allow one column of a
multicolumn foreign key to be null unless all foreign key columns are null; if
they are all null, the row is not required to have a match in the referenced
table. `MATCH SIMPLE` allows any of the foreign key columns to be null; if any
of them are null, the row is not required to have a match in the referenced
table. `MATCH PARTIAL` is not yet implemented. (Of course, `NOT NULL`
constraints can be applied to the referencing column(s) to prevent these cases
from arising.)

In addition, when the data in the referenced columns is changed, certain
actions are performed on the data in this table's columns. The `ON DELETE`
clause specifies the action to perform when a referenced row in the referenced
table is being deleted. Likewise, the `ON UPDATE` clause specifies the action
to perform when a referenced column in the referenced table is being updated
to a new value. If the row is updated, but the referenced column is not
actually changed, no action is done. Referential actions other than the `NO
ACTION` check cannot be deferred, even if the constraint is declared
deferrable. There are the following possible actions for each clause:

`NO ACTION` #

    

Produce an error indicating that the deletion or update would create a foreign
key constraint violation. If the constraint is deferred, this error will be
produced at constraint check time if there still exist any referencing rows.
This is the default action.

`RESTRICT` #

    

Produce an error indicating that the deletion or update would create a foreign
key constraint violation. This is the same as `NO ACTION` except that the
check is not deferrable.

`CASCADE` #

    

Delete any rows referencing the deleted row, or update the values of the
referencing column(s) to the new values of the referenced columns,
respectively.

`SET NULL [ ( _`column_name`_ [, ... ] ) ]` #

    

Set all of the referencing columns, or a specified subset of the referencing
columns, to null. A subset of columns can only be specified for `ON DELETE`
actions.

`SET DEFAULT [ ( _`column_name`_ [, ... ] ) ]` #

    

Set all of the referencing columns, or a specified subset of the referencing
columns, to their default values. A subset of columns can only be specified
for `ON DELETE` actions. (There must be a row in the referenced table matching
the default values, if they are not null, or the operation will fail.)

If the referenced column(s) are changed frequently, it might be wise to add an
index to the referencing column(s) so that referential actions associated with
the foreign key constraint can be performed more efficiently.

`DEFERRABLE`  
`NOT DEFERRABLE` #

    

This controls whether the constraint can be deferred. A constraint that is not
deferrable will be checked immediately after every command. Checking of
constraints that are deferrable can be postponed until the end of the
transaction (using the [`SET CONSTRAINTS`](sql-set-constraints.html "SET
CONSTRAINTS") command). `NOT DEFERRABLE` is the default. Currently, only
`UNIQUE`, `PRIMARY KEY`, `EXCLUDE`, and `REFERENCES` (foreign key) constraints
accept this clause. `NOT NULL` and `CHECK` constraints are not deferrable.
Note that deferrable constraints cannot be used as conflict arbitrators in an
`INSERT` statement that includes an `ON CONFLICT DO UPDATE` clause.

`INITIALLY IMMEDIATE`  
`INITIALLY DEFERRED` #

    

If a constraint is deferrable, this clause specifies the default time to check
the constraint. If the constraint is `INITIALLY IMMEDIATE`, it is checked
after each statement. This is the default. If the constraint is `INITIALLY
DEFERRED`, it is checked only at the end of the transaction. The constraint
check time can be altered with the [`SET CONSTRAINTS`](sql-set-
constraints.html "SET CONSTRAINTS") command.

`USING _`method`_` #

    

This optional clause specifies the table access method to use to store the
contents for the new table; the method needs be an access method of type
`TABLE`. See [Chapter 63](tableam.html "Chapter 63. Table Access Method
Interface Definition") for more information. If this option is not specified,
the default table access method is chosen for the new table. See
[default_table_access_method](runtime-config-client.html#GUC-DEFAULT-TABLE-
ACCESS-METHOD) for more information.

`WITH ( _`storage_parameter`_ [= _`value`_] [, ... ] )` #

    

This clause specifies optional storage parameters for a table or index; see
[Storage Parameters](sql-createtable.html#SQL-CREATETABLE-STORAGE-PARAMETERS
"Storage Parameters") below for more information. For backward-compatibility
the `WITH` clause for a table can also include `OIDS=FALSE` to specify that
rows of the new table should not contain OIDs (object identifiers),
`OIDS=TRUE` is not supported anymore.

`WITHOUT OIDS` #

    

This is backward-compatible syntax for declaring a table `WITHOUT OIDS`,
creating a table `WITH OIDS` is not supported anymore.

`ON COMMIT` #

    

The behavior of temporary tables at the end of a transaction block can be
controlled using `ON COMMIT`. The three options are:

`PRESERVE ROWS` #

    

No special action is taken at the ends of transactions. This is the default
behavior.

`DELETE ROWS` #

    

All rows in the temporary table will be deleted at the end of each transaction
block. Essentially, an automatic [`TRUNCATE`](sql-truncate.html "TRUNCATE") is
done at each commit. When used on a partitioned table, this is not cascaded to
its partitions.

`DROP` #

    

The temporary table will be dropped at the end of the current transaction
block. When used on a partitioned table, this action drops its partitions and
when used on tables with inheritance children, it drops the dependent
children.

`TABLESPACE _`tablespace_name`_` #

    

The _`tablespace_name`_ is the name of the tablespace in which the new table
is to be created. If not specified, [default_tablespace](runtime-config-
client.html#GUC-DEFAULT-TABLESPACE) is consulted, or
[temp_tablespaces](runtime-config-client.html#GUC-TEMP-TABLESPACES) if the
table is temporary. For partitioned tables, since no storage is required for
the table itself, the tablespace specified overrides `default_tablespace` as
the default tablespace to use for any newly created partitions when no other
tablespace is explicitly specified.

`USING INDEX TABLESPACE _`tablespace_name`_` #

    

This clause allows selection of the tablespace in which the index associated
with a `UNIQUE`, `PRIMARY KEY`, or `EXCLUDE` constraint will be created. If
not specified, [default_tablespace](runtime-config-client.html#GUC-DEFAULT-
TABLESPACE) is consulted, or [temp_tablespaces](runtime-config-
client.html#GUC-TEMP-TABLESPACES) if the table is temporary.

### Storage Parameters

The `WITH` clause can specify _storage parameters_ for tables, and for indexes
associated with a `UNIQUE`, `PRIMARY KEY`, or `EXCLUDE` constraint. Storage
parameters for indexes are documented in [CREATE INDEX](sql-createindex.html
"CREATE INDEX"). The storage parameters currently available for tables are
listed below. For many of these parameters, as shown, there is an additional
parameter with the same name prefixed with `toast.`, which controls the
behavior of the table's secondary TOAST table, if any (see [Section
73.2](storage-toast.html "73.2. TOAST") for more information about TOAST). If
a table parameter value is set and the equivalent `toast.` parameter is not,
the TOAST table will use the table's parameter value. Specifying these
parameters for partitioned tables is not supported, but you may specify them
for individual leaf partitions.

`fillfactor` (`integer`)  #

    

The fillfactor for a table is a percentage between 10 and 100. 100 (complete
packing) is the default. When a smaller fillfactor is specified, `INSERT`
operations pack table pages only to the indicated percentage; the remaining
space on each page is reserved for updating rows on that page. This gives
`UPDATE` a chance to place the updated copy of a row on the same page as the
original, which is more efficient than placing it on a different page, and
makes [heap-only tuple updates](storage-hot.html "73.7. Heap-Only Tuples
\(HOT\)") more likely. For a table whose entries are never updated, complete
packing is the best choice, but in heavily updated tables smaller fillfactors
are appropriate. This parameter cannot be set for TOAST tables.

`toast_tuple_target` (`integer`)  #

    

The toast_tuple_target specifies the minimum tuple length required before we
try to compress and/or move long column values into TOAST tables, and is also
the target length we try to reduce the length below once toasting begins. This
affects columns marked as External (for move), Main (for compression), or
Extended (for both) and applies only to new tuples. There is no effect on
existing rows. By default this parameter is set to allow at least 4 tuples per
block, which with the default block size will be 2040 bytes. Valid values are
between 128 bytes and the (block size - header), by default 8160 bytes.
Changing this value may not be useful for very short or very long rows. Note
that the default setting is often close to optimal, and it is possible that
setting this parameter could have negative effects in some cases. This
parameter cannot be set for TOAST tables.

`parallel_workers` (`integer`)  #

    

This sets the number of workers that should be used to assist a parallel scan
of this table. If not set, the system will determine a value based on the
relation size. The actual number of workers chosen by the planner or by
utility statements that use parallel scans may be less, for example due to the
setting of [max_worker_processes](runtime-config-resource.html#GUC-MAX-WORKER-
PROCESSES).

`autovacuum_enabled`, `toast.autovacuum_enabled` (`boolean`)  #

    

Enables or disables the autovacuum daemon for a particular table. If true, the
autovacuum daemon will perform automatic `VACUUM` and/or `ANALYZE` operations
on this table following the rules discussed in [Section 25.1.6](routine-
vacuuming.html#AUTOVACUUM "25.1.6. The Autovacuum Daemon"). If false, this
table will not be autovacuumed, except to prevent transaction ID wraparound.
See [Section 25.1.5](routine-vacuuming.html#VACUUM-FOR-WRAPAROUND
"25.1.5. Preventing Transaction ID Wraparound Failures") for more about
wraparound prevention. Note that the autovacuum daemon does not run at all
(except to prevent transaction ID wraparound) if the [autovacuum](runtime-
config-autovacuum.html#GUC-AUTOVACUUM) parameter is false; setting individual
tables' storage parameters does not override that. Therefore there is seldom
much point in explicitly setting this storage parameter to `true`, only to
`false`.

`vacuum_index_cleanup`, `toast.vacuum_index_cleanup` (`enum`)  #

    

Forces or disables index cleanup when `VACUUM` is run on this table. The
default value is `AUTO`. With `OFF`, index cleanup is disabled, with `ON` it
is enabled, and with `AUTO` a decision is made dynamically, each time `VACUUM`
runs. The dynamic behavior allows `VACUUM` to avoid needlessly scanning
indexes to remove very few dead tuples. Forcibly disabling all index cleanup
can speed up `VACUUM` very significantly, but may also lead to severely
bloated indexes if table modifications are frequent. The `INDEX_CLEANUP`
parameter of [`VACUUM`](sql-vacuum.html "VACUUM"), if specified, overrides the
value of this option.

`vacuum_truncate`, `toast.vacuum_truncate` (`boolean`)  #

    

Enables or disables vacuum to try to truncate off any empty pages at the end
of this table. The default value is `true`. If `true`, `VACUUM` and autovacuum
do the truncation and the disk space for the truncated pages is returned to
the operating system. Note that the truncation requires `ACCESS EXCLUSIVE`
lock on the table. The `TRUNCATE` parameter of [`VACUUM`](sql-vacuum.html
"VACUUM"), if specified, overrides the value of this option.

`autovacuum_vacuum_threshold`, `toast.autovacuum_vacuum_threshold` (`integer`)
#

    

Per-table value for [autovacuum_vacuum_threshold](runtime-config-
autovacuum.html#GUC-AUTOVACUUM-VACUUM-THRESHOLD) parameter.

`autovacuum_vacuum_scale_factor`, `toast.autovacuum_vacuum_scale_factor`
(`floating point`)  #

    

Per-table value for [autovacuum_vacuum_scale_factor](runtime-config-
autovacuum.html#GUC-AUTOVACUUM-VACUUM-SCALE-FACTOR) parameter.

`autovacuum_vacuum_insert_threshold`,
`toast.autovacuum_vacuum_insert_threshold` (`integer`)  #

    

Per-table value for [autovacuum_vacuum_insert_threshold](runtime-config-
autovacuum.html#GUC-AUTOVACUUM-VACUUM-INSERT-THRESHOLD) parameter. The special
value of -1 may be used to disable insert vacuums on the table.

`autovacuum_vacuum_insert_scale_factor`,
`toast.autovacuum_vacuum_insert_scale_factor` (`floating point`)  #

    

Per-table value for [autovacuum_vacuum_insert_scale_factor](runtime-config-
autovacuum.html#GUC-AUTOVACUUM-VACUUM-INSERT-SCALE-FACTOR) parameter.

`autovacuum_analyze_threshold` (`integer`)  #

    

Per-table value for [autovacuum_analyze_threshold](runtime-config-
autovacuum.html#GUC-AUTOVACUUM-ANALYZE-THRESHOLD) parameter.

`autovacuum_analyze_scale_factor` (`floating point`)  #

    

Per-table value for [autovacuum_analyze_scale_factor](runtime-config-
autovacuum.html#GUC-AUTOVACUUM-ANALYZE-SCALE-FACTOR) parameter.

`autovacuum_vacuum_cost_delay`, `toast.autovacuum_vacuum_cost_delay`
(`floating point`)  #

    

Per-table value for [autovacuum_vacuum_cost_delay](runtime-config-
autovacuum.html#GUC-AUTOVACUUM-VACUUM-COST-DELAY) parameter.

`autovacuum_vacuum_cost_limit`, `toast.autovacuum_vacuum_cost_limit`
(`integer`)  #

    

Per-table value for [autovacuum_vacuum_cost_limit](runtime-config-
autovacuum.html#GUC-AUTOVACUUM-VACUUM-COST-LIMIT) parameter.

`autovacuum_freeze_min_age`, `toast.autovacuum_freeze_min_age` (`integer`)  #

    

Per-table value for [vacuum_freeze_min_age](runtime-config-client.html#GUC-
VACUUM-FREEZE-MIN-AGE) parameter. Note that autovacuum will ignore per-table
`autovacuum_freeze_min_age` parameters that are larger than half the system-
wide [autovacuum_freeze_max_age](runtime-config-autovacuum.html#GUC-
AUTOVACUUM-FREEZE-MAX-AGE) setting.

`autovacuum_freeze_max_age`, `toast.autovacuum_freeze_max_age` (`integer`)  #

    

Per-table value for [autovacuum_freeze_max_age](runtime-config-
autovacuum.html#GUC-AUTOVACUUM-FREEZE-MAX-AGE) parameter. Note that autovacuum
will ignore per-table `autovacuum_freeze_max_age` parameters that are larger
than the system-wide setting (it can only be set smaller).

`autovacuum_freeze_table_age`, `toast.autovacuum_freeze_table_age` (`integer`)
#

    

Per-table value for [vacuum_freeze_table_age](runtime-config-client.html#GUC-
VACUUM-FREEZE-TABLE-AGE) parameter.

`autovacuum_multixact_freeze_min_age`,
`toast.autovacuum_multixact_freeze_min_age` (`integer`)  #

    

Per-table value for [vacuum_multixact_freeze_min_age](runtime-config-
client.html#GUC-VACUUM-MULTIXACT-FREEZE-MIN-AGE) parameter. Note that
autovacuum will ignore per-table `autovacuum_multixact_freeze_min_age`
parameters that are larger than half the system-wide
[autovacuum_multixact_freeze_max_age](runtime-config-autovacuum.html#GUC-
AUTOVACUUM-MULTIXACT-FREEZE-MAX-AGE) setting.

`autovacuum_multixact_freeze_max_age`,
`toast.autovacuum_multixact_freeze_max_age` (`integer`)  #

    

Per-table value for [autovacuum_multixact_freeze_max_age](runtime-config-
autovacuum.html#GUC-AUTOVACUUM-MULTIXACT-FREEZE-MAX-AGE) parameter. Note that
autovacuum will ignore per-table `autovacuum_multixact_freeze_max_age`
parameters that are larger than the system-wide setting (it can only be set
smaller).

`autovacuum_multixact_freeze_table_age`,
`toast.autovacuum_multixact_freeze_table_age` (`integer`)  #

    

Per-table value for [vacuum_multixact_freeze_table_age](runtime-config-
client.html#GUC-VACUUM-MULTIXACT-FREEZE-TABLE-AGE) parameter.

`log_autovacuum_min_duration`, `toast.log_autovacuum_min_duration` (`integer`)
#

    

Per-table value for [log_autovacuum_min_duration](runtime-config-
logging.html#GUC-LOG-AUTOVACUUM-MIN-DURATION) parameter.

`user_catalog_table` (`boolean`)  #

    

Declare the table as an additional catalog table for purposes of logical
replication. See [Section 49.6.2](logicaldecoding-output-
plugin.html#LOGICALDECODING-CAPABILITIES "49.6.2. Capabilities") for details.
This parameter cannot be set for TOAST tables.

## Notes

PostgreSQL automatically creates an index for each unique constraint and
primary key constraint to enforce uniqueness. Thus, it is not necessary to
create an index explicitly for primary key columns. (See [CREATE INDEX](sql-
createindex.html "CREATE INDEX") for more information.)

Unique constraints and primary keys are not inherited in the current
implementation. This makes the combination of inheritance and unique
constraints rather dysfunctional.

A table cannot have more than 1600 columns. (In practice, the effective limit
is usually lower because of tuple-length constraints.)

## Examples

Create table `films` and table `distributors`:

    
    
    CREATE TABLE films (
        code        char(5) CONSTRAINT firstkey PRIMARY KEY,
        title       varchar(40) NOT NULL,
        did         integer NOT NULL,
        date_prod   date,
        kind        varchar(10),
        len         interval hour to minute
    );
    
    CREATE TABLE distributors (
         did    integer PRIMARY KEY GENERATED BY DEFAULT AS IDENTITY,
         name   varchar(40) NOT NULL CHECK (name <> '')
    );
    

Create a table with a 2-dimensional array:

    
    
    CREATE TABLE array_int (
        vector  int[][]
    );
    

Define a unique table constraint for the table `films`. Unique table
constraints can be defined on one or more columns of the table:

    
    
    CREATE TABLE films (
        code        char(5),
        title       varchar(40),
        did         integer,
        date_prod   date,
        kind        varchar(10),
        len         interval hour to minute,
        CONSTRAINT production UNIQUE(date_prod)
    );
    

Define a check column constraint:

    
    
    CREATE TABLE distributors (
        did     integer CHECK (did > 100),
        name    varchar(40)
    );
    

Define a check table constraint:

    
    
    CREATE TABLE distributors (
        did     integer,
        name    varchar(40),
        CONSTRAINT con1 CHECK (did > 100 AND name <> '')
    );
    

Define a primary key table constraint for the table `films`:

    
    
    CREATE TABLE films (
        code        char(5),
        title       varchar(40),
        did         integer,
        date_prod   date,
        kind        varchar(10),
        len         interval hour to minute,
        CONSTRAINT code_title PRIMARY KEY(code,title)
    );
    

Define a primary key constraint for table `distributors`. The following two
examples are equivalent, the first using the table constraint syntax, the
second the column constraint syntax:

    
    
    CREATE TABLE distributors (
        did     integer,
        name    varchar(40),
        PRIMARY KEY(did)
    );
    
    CREATE TABLE distributors (
        did     integer PRIMARY KEY,
        name    varchar(40)
    );
    

Assign a literal constant default value for the column `name`, arrange for the
default value of column `did` to be generated by selecting the next value of a
sequence object, and make the default value of `modtime` be the time at which
the row is inserted:

    
    
    CREATE TABLE distributors (
        name      varchar(40) DEFAULT 'Luso Films',
        did       integer DEFAULT nextval('distributors_serial'),
        modtime   timestamp DEFAULT current_timestamp
    );
    

Define two `NOT NULL` column constraints on the table `distributors`, one of
which is explicitly given a name:

    
    
    CREATE TABLE distributors (
        did     integer CONSTRAINT no_null NOT NULL,
        name    varchar(40) NOT NULL
    );
    

Define a unique constraint for the `name` column:

    
    
    CREATE TABLE distributors (
        did     integer,
        name    varchar(40) UNIQUE
    );
    

The same, specified as a table constraint:

    
    
    CREATE TABLE distributors (
        did     integer,
        name    varchar(40),
        UNIQUE(name)
    );
    

Create the same table, specifying 70% fill factor for both the table and its
unique index:

    
    
    CREATE TABLE distributors (
        did     integer,
        name    varchar(40),
        UNIQUE(name) WITH (fillfactor=70)
    )
    WITH (fillfactor=70);
    

Create table `circles` with an exclusion constraint that prevents any two
circles from overlapping:

    
    
    CREATE TABLE circles (
        c circle,
        EXCLUDE USING gist (c WITH &&)
    );
    

Create table `cinemas` in tablespace `diskvol1`:

    
    
    CREATE TABLE cinemas (
            id serial,
            name text,
            location text
    ) TABLESPACE diskvol1;
    

Create a composite type and a typed table:

    
    
    CREATE TYPE employee_type AS (name text, salary numeric);
    
    CREATE TABLE employees OF employee_type (
        PRIMARY KEY (name),
        salary WITH OPTIONS DEFAULT 1000
    );
    

Create a range partitioned table:

    
    
    CREATE TABLE measurement (
        logdate         date not null,
        peaktemp        int,
        unitsales       int
    ) PARTITION BY RANGE (logdate);
    

Create a range partitioned table with multiple columns in the partition key:

    
    
    CREATE TABLE measurement_year_month (
        logdate         date not null,
        peaktemp        int,
        unitsales       int
    ) PARTITION BY RANGE (EXTRACT(YEAR FROM logdate), EXTRACT(MONTH FROM logdate));
    

Create a list partitioned table:

    
    
    CREATE TABLE cities (
        city_id      bigserial not null,
        name         text not null,
        population   bigint
    ) PARTITION BY LIST (left(lower(name), 1));
    

Create a hash partitioned table:

    
    
    CREATE TABLE orders (
        order_id     bigint not null,
        cust_id      bigint not null,
        status       text
    ) PARTITION BY HASH (order_id);
    

Create partition of a range partitioned table:

    
    
    CREATE TABLE measurement_y2016m07
        PARTITION OF measurement (
        unitsales DEFAULT 0
    ) FOR VALUES FROM ('2016-07-01') TO ('2016-08-01');
    

Create a few partitions of a range partitioned table with multiple columns in
the partition key:

    
    
    CREATE TABLE measurement_ym_older
        PARTITION OF measurement_year_month
        FOR VALUES FROM (MINVALUE, MINVALUE) TO (2016, 11);
    
    CREATE TABLE measurement_ym_y2016m11
        PARTITION OF measurement_year_month
        FOR VALUES FROM (2016, 11) TO (2016, 12);
    
    CREATE TABLE measurement_ym_y2016m12
        PARTITION OF measurement_year_month
        FOR VALUES FROM (2016, 12) TO (2017, 01);
    
    CREATE TABLE measurement_ym_y2017m01
        PARTITION OF measurement_year_month
        FOR VALUES FROM (2017, 01) TO (2017, 02);
    

Create partition of a list partitioned table:

    
    
    CREATE TABLE cities_ab
        PARTITION OF cities (
        CONSTRAINT city_id_nonzero CHECK (city_id != 0)
    ) FOR VALUES IN ('a', 'b');
    

Create partition of a list partitioned table that is itself further
partitioned and then add a partition to it:

    
    
    CREATE TABLE cities_ab
        PARTITION OF cities (
        CONSTRAINT city_id_nonzero CHECK (city_id != 0)
    ) FOR VALUES IN ('a', 'b') PARTITION BY RANGE (population);
    
    CREATE TABLE cities_ab_10000_to_100000
        PARTITION OF cities_ab FOR VALUES FROM (10000) TO (100000);
    

Create partitions of a hash partitioned table:

    
    
    CREATE TABLE orders_p1 PARTITION OF orders
        FOR VALUES WITH (MODULUS 4, REMAINDER 0);
    CREATE TABLE orders_p2 PARTITION OF orders
        FOR VALUES WITH (MODULUS 4, REMAINDER 1);
    CREATE TABLE orders_p3 PARTITION OF orders
        FOR VALUES WITH (MODULUS 4, REMAINDER 2);
    CREATE TABLE orders_p4 PARTITION OF orders
        FOR VALUES WITH (MODULUS 4, REMAINDER 3);
    

Create a default partition:

    
    
    CREATE TABLE cities_partdef
        PARTITION OF cities DEFAULT;
    

## Compatibility

The `CREATE TABLE` command conforms to the SQL standard, with exceptions
listed below.

### Temporary Tables

Although the syntax of `CREATE TEMPORARY TABLE` resembles that of the SQL
standard, the effect is not the same. In the standard, temporary tables are
defined just once and automatically exist (starting with empty contents) in
every session that needs them. PostgreSQL instead requires each session to
issue its own `CREATE TEMPORARY TABLE` command for each temporary table to be
used. This allows different sessions to use the same temporary table name for
different purposes, whereas the standard's approach constrains all instances
of a given temporary table name to have the same table structure.

The standard's definition of the behavior of temporary tables is widely
ignored. PostgreSQL's behavior on this point is similar to that of several
other SQL databases.

The SQL standard also distinguishes between global and local temporary tables,
where a local temporary table has a separate set of contents for each SQL
module within each session, though its definition is still shared across
sessions. Since PostgreSQL does not support SQL modules, this distinction is
not relevant in PostgreSQL.

For compatibility's sake, PostgreSQL will accept the `GLOBAL` and `LOCAL`
keywords in a temporary table declaration, but they currently have no effect.
Use of these keywords is discouraged, since future versions of PostgreSQL
might adopt a more standard-compliant interpretation of their meaning.

The `ON COMMIT` clause for temporary tables also resembles the SQL standard,
but has some differences. If the `ON COMMIT` clause is omitted, SQL specifies
that the default behavior is `ON COMMIT DELETE ROWS`. However, the default
behavior in PostgreSQL is `ON COMMIT PRESERVE ROWS`. The `ON COMMIT DROP`
option does not exist in SQL.

### Non-Deferred Uniqueness Constraints

When a `UNIQUE` or `PRIMARY KEY` constraint is not deferrable, PostgreSQL
checks for uniqueness immediately whenever a row is inserted or modified. The
SQL standard says that uniqueness should be enforced only at the end of the
statement; this makes a difference when, for example, a single command updates
multiple key values. To obtain standard-compliant behavior, declare the
constraint as `DEFERRABLE` but not deferred (i.e., `INITIALLY IMMEDIATE`). Be
aware that this can be significantly slower than immediate uniqueness
checking.

### Column Check Constraints

The SQL standard says that `CHECK` column constraints can only refer to the
column they apply to; only `CHECK` table constraints can refer to multiple
columns. PostgreSQL does not enforce this restriction; it treats column and
table check constraints alike.

### `EXCLUDE` Constraint

The `EXCLUDE` constraint type is a PostgreSQL extension.

### Foreign Key Constraints

The ability to specify column lists in the foreign key actions `SET DEFAULT`
and `SET NULL` is a PostgreSQL extension.

It is a PostgreSQL extension that a foreign key constraint may reference
columns of a unique index instead of columns of a primary key or unique
constraint.

### `NULL` “Constraint”

The `NULL` “constraint” (actually a non-constraint) is a PostgreSQL extension
to the SQL standard that is included for compatibility with some other
database systems (and for symmetry with the `NOT NULL` constraint). Since it
is the default for any column, its presence is simply noise.

### Constraint Naming

The SQL standard says that table and domain constraints must have names that
are unique across the schema containing the table or domain. PostgreSQL is
laxer: it only requires constraint names to be unique across the constraints
attached to a particular table or domain. However, this extra freedom does not
exist for index-based constraints (`UNIQUE`, `PRIMARY KEY`, and `EXCLUDE`
constraints), because the associated index is named the same as the
constraint, and index names must be unique across all relations within the
same schema.

Currently, PostgreSQL does not record names for `NOT NULL` constraints at all,
so they are not subject to the uniqueness restriction. This might change in a
future release.

### Inheritance

Multiple inheritance via the `INHERITS` clause is a PostgreSQL language
extension. SQL:1999 and later define single inheritance using a different
syntax and different semantics. SQL:1999-style inheritance is not yet
supported by PostgreSQL.

### Zero-Column Tables

PostgreSQL allows a table of no columns to be created (for example, `CREATE
TABLE foo();`). This is an extension from the SQL standard, which does not
allow zero-column tables. Zero-column tables are not in themselves very
useful, but disallowing them creates odd special cases for `ALTER TABLE DROP
COLUMN`, so it seems cleaner to ignore this spec restriction.

### Multiple Identity Columns

PostgreSQL allows a table to have more than one identity column. The standard
specifies that a table can have at most one identity column. This is relaxed
mainly to give more flexibility for doing schema changes or migrations. Note
that the `INSERT` command supports only one override clause that applies to
the entire statement, so having multiple identity columns with different
behaviors is not well supported.

### Generated Columns

The option `STORED` is not standard but is also used by other SQL
implementations. The SQL standard does not specify the storage of generated
columns.

### `LIKE` Clause

While a `LIKE` clause exists in the SQL standard, many of the options that
PostgreSQL accepts for it are not in the standard, and some of the standard's
options are not implemented by PostgreSQL.

### `WITH` Clause

The `WITH` clause is a PostgreSQL extension; storage parameters are not in the
standard.

### Tablespaces

The PostgreSQL concept of tablespaces is not part of the standard. Hence, the
clauses `TABLESPACE` and `USING INDEX TABLESPACE` are extensions.

### Typed Tables

Typed tables implement a subset of the SQL standard. According to the
standard, a typed table has columns corresponding to the underlying composite
type as well as one other column that is the “self-referencing column”.
PostgreSQL does not support self-referencing columns explicitly.

### `PARTITION BY` Clause

The `PARTITION BY` clause is a PostgreSQL extension.

### `PARTITION OF` Clause

The `PARTITION OF` clause is a PostgreSQL extension.

## See Also

[ALTER TABLE](sql-altertable.html "ALTER TABLE"), [DROP TABLE](sql-
droptable.html "DROP TABLE"), [CREATE TABLE AS](sql-createtableas.html "CREATE
TABLE AS"), [CREATE TABLESPACE](sql-createtablespace.html "CREATE
TABLESPACE"), [CREATE TYPE](sql-createtype.html "CREATE TYPE")

* * *

[Prev](sql-createsubscription.html "CREATE SUBSCRIPTION")  | [Up](sql-commands.html "SQL Commands") |  [Next](sql-createtableas.html "CREATE TABLE AS")  
---|---|---  
CREATE SUBSCRIPTION  | [Home](index.html "PostgreSQL 16.9 Documentation") |  CREATE TABLE AS  
  
## Submit correction

If you see anything in the documentation that is not correct, does not match
your experience with the particular feature or requires further clarification,
please use [this form](/account/comments/new/16/sql-createtable.html/) to
report a documentation issue.

[Privacy Policy](/about/privacypolicy) | [Code of Conduct](/about/policies/coc/) | [About PostgreSQL](/about/) | [Contact](/about/contact/)  

Copyright (C) 1996-2025 The PostgreSQL Global Development Group

