[ ![PostgreSQL Elephant Logo](/media/img/about/press/elephant.png) ](/)

  * [Home](/ "Home")
  * [About](/about/ "About")
  * [Download](/download/ "Download")
  * [Documentation](/docs/ "Documentation")
  * [Community](/community/ "Community")
  * [Developers](/developer/ "Developers")
  * [Support](/support/ "Support")
  * [Donate](/about/donate/ "Donate")
  * [Your account](/account/ "Your account")

__

May 8, 2025: [ PostgreSQL 17.5, 16.9, 15.13, 14.18, and 13.21 Released! ](/about/news/postgresql-175-169-1513-1418-and-1321-released-3072/) | [ PostgreSQL 18 Beta 1 Released! ](/about/news/postgresql-18-beta-1-released-3070/)

[Documentation](/docs/ "Documentation") -> [PostgreSQL
16](/docs/16/index.html)

Supported Versions: [Current](/docs/current/sql-reindex.html "PostgreSQL 17 -
REINDEX") ([17](/docs/17/sql-reindex.html "PostgreSQL 17 - REINDEX")) /
[16](/docs/16/sql-reindex.html "PostgreSQL 16 - REINDEX") / [15](/docs/15/sql-
reindex.html "PostgreSQL 15 - REINDEX") / [14](/docs/14/sql-reindex.html
"PostgreSQL 14 - REINDEX") / [13](/docs/13/sql-reindex.html "PostgreSQL 13 -
REINDEX")

Development Versions: [18](/docs/18/sql-reindex.html "PostgreSQL 18 -
REINDEX") / [devel](/docs/devel/sql-reindex.html "PostgreSQL devel - REINDEX")

Unsupported versions: [12](/docs/12/sql-reindex.html "PostgreSQL 12 -
REINDEX") / [11](/docs/11/sql-reindex.html "PostgreSQL 11 - REINDEX") /
[10](/docs/10/sql-reindex.html "PostgreSQL 10 - REINDEX") /
[9.6](/docs/9.6/sql-reindex.html "PostgreSQL 9.6 - REINDEX") /
[9.5](/docs/9.5/sql-reindex.html "PostgreSQL 9.5 - REINDEX") /
[9.4](/docs/9.4/sql-reindex.html "PostgreSQL 9.4 - REINDEX") /
[9.3](/docs/9.3/sql-reindex.html "PostgreSQL 9.3 - REINDEX") /
[9.2](/docs/9.2/sql-reindex.html "PostgreSQL 9.2 - REINDEX") /
[9.1](/docs/9.1/sql-reindex.html "PostgreSQL 9.1 - REINDEX") /
[9.0](/docs/9.0/sql-reindex.html "PostgreSQL 9.0 - REINDEX") /
[8.4](/docs/8.4/sql-reindex.html "PostgreSQL 8.4 - REINDEX") /
[8.3](/docs/8.3/sql-reindex.html "PostgreSQL 8.3 - REINDEX") /
[8.2](/docs/8.2/sql-reindex.html "PostgreSQL 8.2 - REINDEX") /
[8.1](/docs/8.1/sql-reindex.html "PostgreSQL 8.1 - REINDEX") /
[8.0](/docs/8.0/sql-reindex.html "PostgreSQL 8.0 - REINDEX") /
[7.4](/docs/7.4/sql-reindex.html "PostgreSQL 7.4 - REINDEX") /
[7.3](/docs/7.3/sql-reindex.html "PostgreSQL 7.3 - REINDEX") /
[7.2](/docs/7.2/sql-reindex.html "PostgreSQL 7.2 - REINDEX") /
[7.1](/docs/7.1/sql-reindex.html "PostgreSQL 7.1 - REINDEX")

__

REINDEX  
---  
[Prev](sql-refreshmaterializedview.html "REFRESH MATERIALIZED VIEW")  | [Up](sql-commands.html "SQL Commands") | SQL Commands | [Home](index.html "PostgreSQL 16.9 Documentation") |  [Next](sql-release-savepoint.html "RELEASE SAVEPOINT")  
  
* * *

## REINDEX

REINDEX — rebuild indexes

## Synopsis

    
    
    REINDEX [ ( _option_ [, ...] ) ] { INDEX | TABLE | SCHEMA } [ CONCURRENTLY ] _name_
    REINDEX [ ( _option_ [, ...] ) ] { DATABASE | SYSTEM } [ CONCURRENTLY ] [ _name_ ]
    
    where _option_ can be one of:
    
        CONCURRENTLY [ _boolean_ ]
        TABLESPACE _new_tablespace_
        VERBOSE [ _boolean_ ]
    

## Description

`REINDEX` rebuilds an index using the data stored in the index's table,
replacing the old copy of the index. There are several scenarios in which to
use `REINDEX`:

  * An index has become corrupted, and no longer contains valid data. Although in theory this should never happen, in practice indexes can become corrupted due to software bugs or hardware failures. `REINDEX` provides a recovery method.

  * An index has become “bloated”, that is it contains many empty or nearly-empty pages. This can occur with B-tree indexes in PostgreSQL under certain uncommon access patterns. `REINDEX` provides a way to reduce the space consumption of the index by writing a new version of the index without the dead pages. See [Section 25.2](routine-reindex.html "25.2. Routine Reindexing") for more information.

  * You have altered a storage parameter (such as fillfactor) for an index, and wish to ensure that the change has taken full effect.

  * If an index build fails with the `CONCURRENTLY` option, this index is left as “invalid”. Such indexes are useless but it can be convenient to use `REINDEX` to rebuild them. Note that only `REINDEX INDEX` is able to perform a concurrent build on an invalid index.

## Parameters

`INDEX`

    

Recreate the specified index. This form of `REINDEX` cannot be executed inside
a transaction block when used with a partitioned index.

`TABLE`

    

Recreate all indexes of the specified table. If the table has a secondary
“TOAST” table, that is reindexed as well. This form of `REINDEX` cannot be
executed inside a transaction block when used with a partitioned table.

`SCHEMA`

    

Recreate all indexes of the specified schema. If a table of this schema has a
secondary “TOAST” table, that is reindexed as well. Indexes on shared system
catalogs are also processed. This form of `REINDEX` cannot be executed inside
a transaction block.

`DATABASE`

    

Recreate all indexes within the current database, except system catalogs.
Indexes on system catalogs are not processed. This form of `REINDEX` cannot be
executed inside a transaction block.

`SYSTEM`

    

Recreate all indexes on system catalogs within the current database. Indexes
on shared system catalogs are included. Indexes on user tables are not
processed. This form of `REINDEX` cannot be executed inside a transaction
block.

_`name`_

    

The name of the specific index, table, or database to be reindexed. Index and
table names can be schema-qualified. Presently, `REINDEX DATABASE` and
`REINDEX SYSTEM` can only reindex the current database. Their parameter is
optional, and it must match the current database's name.

`CONCURRENTLY`

    

When this option is used, PostgreSQL will rebuild the index without taking any
locks that prevent concurrent inserts, updates, or deletes on the table;
whereas a standard index rebuild locks out writes (but not reads) on the table
until it's done. There are several caveats to be aware of when using this
option — see [Rebuilding Indexes Concurrently](sql-reindex.html#SQL-REINDEX-
CONCURRENTLY "Rebuilding Indexes Concurrently") below.

For temporary tables, `REINDEX` is always non-concurrent, as no other session
can access them, and non-concurrent reindex is cheaper.

`TABLESPACE`

    

Specifies that indexes will be rebuilt on a new tablespace.

`VERBOSE`

    

Prints a progress report as each index is reindexed.

_`boolean`_

    

Specifies whether the selected option should be turned on or off. You can
write `TRUE`, `ON`, or `1` to enable the option, and `FALSE`, `OFF`, or `0` to
disable it. The _`boolean`_ value can also be omitted, in which case `TRUE` is
assumed.

_`new_tablespace`_

    

The tablespace where indexes will be rebuilt.

## Notes

If you suspect corruption of an index on a user table, you can simply rebuild
that index, or all indexes on the table, using `REINDEX INDEX` or `REINDEX
TABLE`.

Things are more difficult if you need to recover from corruption of an index
on a system table. In this case it's important for the system to not have used
any of the suspect indexes itself. (Indeed, in this sort of scenario you might
find that server processes are crashing immediately at start-up, due to
reliance on the corrupted indexes.) To recover safely, the server must be
started with the `-P` option, which prevents it from using indexes for system
catalog lookups.

One way to do this is to shut down the server and start a single-user
PostgreSQL server with the `-P` option included on its command line. Then,
`REINDEX DATABASE`, `REINDEX SYSTEM`, `REINDEX TABLE`, or `REINDEX INDEX` can
be issued, depending on how much you want to reconstruct. If in doubt, use
`REINDEX SYSTEM` to select reconstruction of all system indexes in the
database. Then quit the single-user server session and restart the regular
server. See the [postgres](app-postgres.html "postgres") reference page for
more information about how to interact with the single-user server interface.

Alternatively, a regular server session can be started with `-P` included in
its command line options. The method for doing this varies across clients, but
in all libpq-based clients, it is possible to set the `PGOPTIONS` environment
variable to `-P` before starting the client. Note that while this method does
not require locking out other clients, it might still be wise to prevent other
users from connecting to the damaged database until repairs have been
completed.

`REINDEX` is similar to a drop and recreate of the index in that the index
contents are rebuilt from scratch. However, the locking considerations are
rather different. `REINDEX` locks out writes but not reads of the index's
parent table. It also takes an `ACCESS EXCLUSIVE` lock on the specific index
being processed, which will block reads that attempt to use that index. In
particular, the query planner tries to take an `ACCESS SHARE` lock on every
index of the table, regardless of the query, and so `REINDEX` blocks virtually
any queries except for some prepared queries whose plan has been cached and
which don't use this very index. In contrast, `DROP INDEX` momentarily takes
an `ACCESS EXCLUSIVE` lock on the parent table, blocking both writes and
reads. The subsequent `CREATE INDEX` locks out writes but not reads; since the
index is not there, no read will attempt to use it, meaning that there will be
no blocking but reads might be forced into expensive sequential scans.

Reindexing a single index or table requires being the owner of that index or
table. Reindexing a schema or database requires being the owner of that schema
or database. Note specifically that it's thus possible for non-superusers to
rebuild indexes of tables owned by other users. However, as a special
exception, when `REINDEX DATABASE`, `REINDEX SCHEMA` or `REINDEX SYSTEM` is
issued by a non-superuser, indexes on shared catalogs will be skipped unless
the user owns the catalog (which typically won't be the case). Of course,
superusers can always reindex anything.

Reindexing partitioned indexes or partitioned tables is supported with
`REINDEX INDEX` or `REINDEX TABLE`, respectively. Each partition of the
specified partitioned relation is reindexed in a separate transaction. Those
commands cannot be used inside a transaction block when working on a
partitioned table or index.

When using the `TABLESPACE` clause with `REINDEX` on a partitioned index or
table, only the tablespace references of the leaf partitions are updated. As
partitioned indexes are not updated, it is recommended to separately use
`ALTER TABLE ONLY` on them so as any new partitions attached inherit the new
tablespace. On failure, it may not have moved all the indexes to the new
tablespace. Re-running the command will rebuild all the leaf partitions and
move previously-unprocessed indexes to the new tablespace.

If `SCHEMA`, `DATABASE` or `SYSTEM` is used with `TABLESPACE`, system
relations are skipped and a single `WARNING` will be generated. Indexes on
TOAST tables are rebuilt, but not moved to the new tablespace.

### Rebuilding Indexes Concurrently

Rebuilding an index can interfere with regular operation of a database.
Normally PostgreSQL locks the table whose index is rebuilt against writes and
performs the entire index build with a single scan of the table. Other
transactions can still read the table, but if they try to insert, update, or
delete rows in the table they will block until the index rebuild is finished.
This could have a severe effect if the system is a live production database.
Very large tables can take many hours to be indexed, and even for smaller
tables, an index rebuild can lock out writers for periods that are
unacceptably long for a production system.

PostgreSQL supports rebuilding indexes with minimum locking of writes. This
method is invoked by specifying the `CONCURRENTLY` option of `REINDEX`. When
this option is used, PostgreSQL must perform two scans of the table for each
index that needs to be rebuilt and wait for termination of all existing
transactions that could potentially use the index. This method requires more
total work than a standard index rebuild and takes significantly longer to
complete as it needs to wait for unfinished transactions that might modify the
index. However, since it allows normal operations to continue while the index
is being rebuilt, this method is useful for rebuilding indexes in a production
environment. Of course, the extra CPU, memory and I/O load imposed by the
index rebuild may slow down other operations.

The following steps occur in a concurrent reindex. Each step is run in a
separate transaction. If there are multiple indexes to be rebuilt, then each
step loops through all the indexes before moving to the next step.

  1. A new transient index definition is added to the catalog `pg_index`. This definition will be used to replace the old index. A `SHARE UPDATE EXCLUSIVE` lock at session level is taken on the indexes being reindexed as well as their associated tables to prevent any schema modification while processing.

  2. A first pass to build the index is done for each new index. Once the index is built, its flag `pg_index.indisready` is switched to “true” to make it ready for inserts, making it visible to other sessions once the transaction that performed the build is finished. This step is done in a separate transaction for each index.

  3. Then a second pass is performed to add tuples that were added while the first pass was running. This step is also done in a separate transaction for each index.

  4. All the constraints that refer to the index are changed to refer to the new index definition, and the names of the indexes are changed. At this point, `pg_index.indisvalid` is switched to “true” for the new index and to “false” for the old, and a cache invalidation is done causing all sessions that referenced the old index to be invalidated.

  5. The old indexes have `pg_index.indisready` switched to “false” to prevent any new tuple insertions, after waiting for running queries that might reference the old index to complete.

  6. The old indexes are dropped. The `SHARE UPDATE EXCLUSIVE` session locks for the indexes and the table are released.

If a problem arises while rebuilding the indexes, such as a uniqueness
violation in a unique index, the `REINDEX` command will fail but leave behind
an “invalid” new index in addition to the pre-existing one. This index will be
ignored for querying purposes because it might be incomplete; however it will
still consume update overhead. The psql `\d` command will report such an index
as `INVALID`:

    
    
    postgres=# \d tab
           Table "public.tab"
     Column |  Type   | Modifiers
    --------+---------+-----------
     col    | integer |
    Indexes:
        "idx" btree (col)
        "idx_ccnew" btree (col) INVALID
    

If the index marked `INVALID` is suffixed `ccnew`, then it corresponds to the
transient index created during the concurrent operation, and the recommended
recovery method is to drop it using `DROP INDEX`, then attempt `REINDEX
CONCURRENTLY` again. If the invalid index is instead suffixed `ccold`, it
corresponds to the original index which could not be dropped; the recommended
recovery method is to just drop said index, since the rebuild proper has been
successful.

Regular index builds permit other regular index builds on the same table to
occur simultaneously, but only one concurrent index build can occur on a table
at a time. In both cases, no other types of schema modification on the table
are allowed meanwhile. Another difference is that a regular `REINDEX TABLE` or
`REINDEX INDEX` command can be performed within a transaction block, but
`REINDEX CONCURRENTLY` cannot.

Like any long-running transaction, `REINDEX` on a table can affect which
tuples can be removed by concurrent `VACUUM` on any other table.

`REINDEX SYSTEM` does not support `CONCURRENTLY` since system catalogs cannot
be reindexed concurrently.

Furthermore, indexes for exclusion constraints cannot be reindexed
concurrently. If such an index is named directly in this command, an error is
raised. If a table or database with exclusion constraint indexes is reindexed
concurrently, those indexes will be skipped. (It is possible to reindex such
indexes without the `CONCURRENTLY` option.)

Each backend running `REINDEX` will report its progress in the
`pg_stat_progress_create_index` view. See [Section 28.4.4](progress-
reporting.html#CREATE-INDEX-PROGRESS-REPORTING "28.4.4. CREATE INDEX Progress
Reporting") for details.

## Examples

Rebuild a single index:

    
    
    REINDEX INDEX my_index;
    

Rebuild all the indexes on the table `my_table`:

    
    
    REINDEX TABLE my_table;
    

Rebuild all indexes in a particular database, without trusting the system
indexes to be valid already:

    
    
    $ **export PGOPTIONS="-P"**
    $ **psql broken_db**
    ...
    broken_db=> REINDEX DATABASE broken_db;
    broken_db=> \q
    

Rebuild indexes for a table, without blocking read and write operations on
involved relations while reindexing is in progress:

    
    
    REINDEX TABLE CONCURRENTLY my_broken_table;
    

## Compatibility

There is no `REINDEX` command in the SQL standard.

## See Also

[CREATE INDEX](sql-createindex.html "CREATE INDEX"), [DROP INDEX](sql-
dropindex.html "DROP INDEX"), [reindexdb](app-reindexdb.html "reindexdb"),
[Section 28.4.4](progress-reporting.html#CREATE-INDEX-PROGRESS-REPORTING
"28.4.4. CREATE INDEX Progress Reporting")

* * *

[Prev](sql-refreshmaterializedview.html "REFRESH MATERIALIZED VIEW")  | [Up](sql-commands.html "SQL Commands") |  [Next](sql-release-savepoint.html "RELEASE SAVEPOINT")  
---|---|---  
REFRESH MATERIALIZED VIEW  | [Home](index.html "PostgreSQL 16.9 Documentation") |  RELEASE SAVEPOINT  
  
## Submit correction

If you see anything in the documentation that is not correct, does not match
your experience with the particular feature or requires further clarification,
please use [this form](/account/comments/new/16/sql-reindex.html/) to report a
documentation issue.

[Privacy Policy](/about/privacypolicy) | [Code of Conduct](/about/policies/coc/) | [About PostgreSQL](/about/) | [Contact](/about/contact/)  

Copyright (C) 1996-2025 The PostgreSQL Global Development Group

