[ ![PostgreSQL Elephant Logo](/media/img/about/press/elephant.png) ](/)

  * [Home](/ "Home")
  * [About](/about/ "About")
  * [Download](/download/ "Download")
  * [Documentation](/docs/ "Documentation")
  * [Community](/community/ "Community")
  * [Developers](/developer/ "Developers")
  * [Support](/support/ "Support")
  * [Donate](/about/donate/ "Donate")
  * [Your account](/account/ "Your account")

__

May 8, 2025: [ PostgreSQL 17.5, 16.9, 15.13, 14.18, and 13.21 Released! ](/about/news/postgresql-175-169-1513-1418-and-1321-released-3072/) | [ PostgreSQL 18 Beta 1 Released! ](/about/news/postgresql-18-beta-1-released-3070/)

[Documentation](/docs/ "Documentation") -> [PostgreSQL
16](/docs/16/index.html)

Supported Versions: [Current](/docs/current/sql-copy.html "PostgreSQL 17 -
COPY") ([17](/docs/17/sql-copy.html "PostgreSQL 17 - COPY")) /
[16](/docs/16/sql-copy.html "PostgreSQL 16 - COPY") / [15](/docs/15/sql-
copy.html "PostgreSQL 15 - COPY") / [14](/docs/14/sql-copy.html "PostgreSQL 14
- COPY") / [13](/docs/13/sql-copy.html "PostgreSQL 13 - COPY")

Development Versions: [18](/docs/18/sql-copy.html "PostgreSQL 18 - COPY") /
[devel](/docs/devel/sql-copy.html "PostgreSQL devel - COPY")

Unsupported versions: [12](/docs/12/sql-copy.html "PostgreSQL 12 - COPY") /
[11](/docs/11/sql-copy.html "PostgreSQL 11 - COPY") / [10](/docs/10/sql-
copy.html "PostgreSQL 10 - COPY") / [9.6](/docs/9.6/sql-copy.html "PostgreSQL
9.6 - COPY") / [9.5](/docs/9.5/sql-copy.html "PostgreSQL 9.5 - COPY") /
[9.4](/docs/9.4/sql-copy.html "PostgreSQL 9.4 - COPY") / [9.3](/docs/9.3/sql-
copy.html "PostgreSQL 9.3 - COPY") / [9.2](/docs/9.2/sql-copy.html "PostgreSQL
9.2 - COPY") / [9.1](/docs/9.1/sql-copy.html "PostgreSQL 9.1 - COPY") /
[9.0](/docs/9.0/sql-copy.html "PostgreSQL 9.0 - COPY") / [8.4](/docs/8.4/sql-
copy.html "PostgreSQL 8.4 - COPY") / [8.3](/docs/8.3/sql-copy.html "PostgreSQL
8.3 - COPY") / [8.2](/docs/8.2/sql-copy.html "PostgreSQL 8.2 - COPY") /
[8.1](/docs/8.1/sql-copy.html "PostgreSQL 8.1 - COPY") / [8.0](/docs/8.0/sql-
copy.html "PostgreSQL 8.0 - COPY") / [7.4](/docs/7.4/sql-copy.html "PostgreSQL
7.4 - COPY") / [7.3](/docs/7.3/sql-copy.html "PostgreSQL 7.3 - COPY") /
[7.2](/docs/7.2/sql-copy.html "PostgreSQL 7.2 - COPY") / [7.1](/docs/7.1/sql-
copy.html "PostgreSQL 7.1 - COPY")

__

COPY  
---  
[Prev](sql-commit-prepared.html "COMMIT PREPARED")  | [Up](sql-commands.html "SQL Commands") | SQL Commands | [Home](index.html "PostgreSQL 16.9 Documentation") |  [Next](sql-create-access-method.html "CREATE ACCESS METHOD")  
  
* * *

## COPY

COPY — copy data between a file and a table

## Synopsis

    
    
    COPY _table_name_ [ ( _column_name_ [, ...] ) ]
        FROM { '_filename_ ' | PROGRAM '_command_ ' | STDIN }
        [ [ WITH ] ( _option_ [, ...] ) ]
        [ WHERE _condition_ ]
    
    COPY { _table_name_ [ ( _column_name_ [, ...] ) ] | ( _query_ ) }
        TO { '_filename_ ' | PROGRAM '_command_ ' | STDOUT }
        [ [ WITH ] ( _option_ [, ...] ) ]
    
    where _option_ can be one of:
    
        FORMAT _format_name_
        FREEZE [ _boolean_ ]
        DELIMITER '_delimiter_character_ '
        NULL '_null_string_ '
        DEFAULT '_default_string_ '
        HEADER [ _boolean_ | MATCH ]
        QUOTE '_quote_character_ '
        ESCAPE '_escape_character_ '
        FORCE_QUOTE { ( _column_name_ [, ...] ) | * }
        FORCE_NOT_NULL ( _column_name_ [, ...] )
        FORCE_NULL ( _column_name_ [, ...] )
        ENCODING '_encoding_name_ '
    

## Description

`COPY` moves data between PostgreSQL tables and standard file-system files.
`COPY TO` copies the contents of a table _to_ a file, while `COPY FROM` copies
data _from_ a file to a table (appending the data to whatever is in the table
already). `COPY TO` can also copy the results of a `SELECT` query.

If a column list is specified, `COPY TO` copies only the data in the specified
columns to the file. For `COPY FROM`, each field in the file is inserted, in
order, into the specified column. Table columns not specified in the `COPY
FROM` column list will receive their default values.

`COPY` with a file name instructs the PostgreSQL server to directly read from
or write to a file. The file must be accessible by the PostgreSQL user (the
user ID the server runs as) and the name must be specified from the viewpoint
of the server. When `PROGRAM` is specified, the server executes the given
command and reads from the standard output of the program, or writes to the
standard input of the program. The command must be specified from the
viewpoint of the server, and be executable by the PostgreSQL user. When
`STDIN` or `STDOUT` is specified, data is transmitted via the connection
between the client and the server.

Each backend running `COPY` will report its progress in the
`pg_stat_progress_copy` view. See [Section 28.4.3](progress-
reporting.html#COPY-PROGRESS-REPORTING "28.4.3. COPY Progress Reporting") for
details.

## Parameters

_`table_name`_

    

The name (optionally schema-qualified) of an existing table.

_`column_name`_

    

An optional list of columns to be copied. If no column list is specified, all
columns of the table except generated columns will be copied.

_`query`_

    

A [`SELECT`](sql-select.html "SELECT"), [`VALUES`](sql-values.html "VALUES"),
[`INSERT`](sql-insert.html "INSERT"), [`UPDATE`](sql-update.html "UPDATE"), or
[`DELETE`](sql-delete.html "DELETE") command whose results are to be copied.
Note that parentheses are required around the query.

For `INSERT`, `UPDATE` and `DELETE` queries a `RETURNING` clause must be
provided, and the target relation must not have a conditional rule, nor an
`ALSO` rule, nor an `INSTEAD` rule that expands to multiple statements.

_`filename`_

    

The path name of the input or output file. An input file name can be an
absolute or relative path, but an output file name must be an absolute path.
Windows users might need to use an `E''` string and double any backslashes
used in the path name.

`PROGRAM`

    

A command to execute. In `COPY FROM`, the input is read from standard output
of the command, and in `COPY TO`, the output is written to the standard input
of the command.

Note that the command is invoked by the shell, so if you need to pass any
arguments that come from an untrusted source, you must be careful to strip or
escape any special characters that might have a special meaning for the shell.
For security reasons, it is best to use a fixed command string, or at least
avoid including any user input in it.

`STDIN`

    

Specifies that input comes from the client application.

`STDOUT`

    

Specifies that output goes to the client application.

_`boolean`_

    

Specifies whether the selected option should be turned on or off. You can
write `TRUE`, `ON`, or `1` to enable the option, and `FALSE`, `OFF`, or `0` to
disable it. The _`boolean`_ value can also be omitted, in which case `TRUE` is
assumed.

`FORMAT`

    

Selects the data format to be read or written: `text`, `csv` (Comma Separated
Values), or `binary`. The default is `text`.

`FREEZE`

    

Requests copying the data with rows already frozen, just as they would be
after running the `VACUUM FREEZE` command. This is intended as a performance
option for initial data loading. Rows will be frozen only if the table being
loaded has been created or truncated in the current subtransaction, there are
no cursors open and there are no older snapshots held by this transaction. It
is currently not possible to perform a `COPY FREEZE` on a partitioned table.

Note that all other sessions will immediately be able to see the data once it
has been successfully loaded. This violates the normal rules of MVCC
visibility and users should be aware of the potential problems this might
cause.

`DELIMITER`

    

Specifies the character that separates columns within each row (line) of the
file. The default is a tab character in text format, a comma in `CSV` format.
This must be a single one-byte character. This option is not allowed when
using `binary` format.

`NULL`

    

Specifies the string that represents a null value. The default is `\N`
(backslash-N) in text format, and an unquoted empty string in `CSV` format.
You might prefer an empty string even in text format for cases where you don't
want to distinguish nulls from empty strings. This option is not allowed when
using `binary` format.

### Note

When using `COPY FROM`, any data item that matches this string will be stored
as a null value, so you should make sure that you use the same string as you
used with `COPY TO`.

`DEFAULT`

    

Specifies the string that represents a default value. Each time the string is
found in the input file, the default value of the corresponding column will be
used. This option is allowed only in `COPY FROM`, and only when not using
`binary` format.

`HEADER`

    

Specifies that the file contains a header line with the names of each column
in the file. On output, the first line contains the column names from the
table. On input, the first line is discarded when this option is set to `true`
(or equivalent Boolean value). If this option is set to `MATCH`, the number
and names of the columns in the header line must match the actual column names
of the table, in order; otherwise an error is raised. This option is not
allowed when using `binary` format. The `MATCH` option is only valid for `COPY
FROM` commands.

`QUOTE`

    

Specifies the quoting character to be used when a data value is quoted. The
default is double-quote. This must be a single one-byte character. This option
is allowed only when using `CSV` format.

`ESCAPE`

    

Specifies the character that should appear before a data character that
matches the `QUOTE` value. The default is the same as the `QUOTE` value (so
that the quoting character is doubled if it appears in the data). This must be
a single one-byte character. This option is allowed only when using `CSV`
format.

`FORCE_QUOTE`

    

Forces quoting to be used for all non-`NULL` values in each specified column.
`NULL` output is never quoted. If `*` is specified, non-`NULL` values will be
quoted in all columns. This option is allowed only in `COPY TO`, and only when
using `CSV` format.

`FORCE_NOT_NULL`

    

Do not match the specified columns' values against the null string. In the
default case where the null string is empty, this means that empty values will
be read as zero-length strings rather than nulls, even when they are not
quoted. This option is allowed only in `COPY FROM`, and only when using `CSV`
format.

`FORCE_NULL`

    

Match the specified columns' values against the null string, even if it has
been quoted, and if a match is found set the value to `NULL`. In the default
case where the null string is empty, this converts a quoted empty string into
NULL. This option is allowed only in `COPY FROM`, and only when using `CSV`
format.

`ENCODING`

    

Specifies that the file is encoded in the _`encoding_name`_. If this option is
omitted, the current client encoding is used. See the Notes below for more
details.

`WHERE`

    

The optional `WHERE` clause has the general form

    
    
    WHERE _condition_
    

where _`condition`_ is any expression that evaluates to a result of type
`boolean`. Any row that does not satisfy this condition will not be inserted
to the table. A row satisfies the condition if it returns true when the actual
row values are substituted for any variable references.

Currently, subqueries are not allowed in `WHERE` expressions, and the
evaluation does not see any changes made by the `COPY` itself (this matters
when the expression contains calls to `VOLATILE` functions).

## Outputs

On successful completion, a `COPY` command returns a command tag of the form

    
    
    COPY _count_
    

The _`count`_ is the number of rows copied.

### Note

psql will print this command tag only if the command was not `COPY ... TO
STDOUT`, or the equivalent psql meta-command `\copy ... to stdout`. This is to
prevent confusing the command tag with the data that was just printed.

## Notes

`COPY TO` can be used only with plain tables, not views, and does not copy
rows from child tables or child partitions. For example, `COPY _`table`_ TO`
copies the same rows as `SELECT * FROM ONLY _`table`_`. The syntax `COPY
(SELECT * FROM _`table`_) TO ...` can be used to dump all of the rows in an
inheritance hierarchy, partitioned table, or view.

`COPY FROM` can be used with plain, foreign, or partitioned tables or with
views that have `INSTEAD OF INSERT` triggers.

You must have select privilege on the table whose values are read by `COPY
TO`, and insert privilege on the table into which values are inserted by `COPY
FROM`. It is sufficient to have column privileges on the column(s) listed in
the command.

If row-level security is enabled for the table, the relevant `SELECT` policies
will apply to `COPY _`table`_ TO` statements. Currently, `COPY FROM` is not
supported for tables with row-level security. Use equivalent `INSERT`
statements instead.

Files named in a `COPY` command are read or written directly by the server,
not by the client application. Therefore, they must reside on or be accessible
to the database server machine, not the client. They must be accessible to and
readable or writable by the PostgreSQL user (the user ID the server runs as),
not the client. Similarly, the command specified with `PROGRAM` is executed
directly by the server, not by the client application, must be executable by
the PostgreSQL user. `COPY` naming a file or command is only allowed to
database superusers or users who are granted one of the roles
`pg_read_server_files`, `pg_write_server_files`, or
`pg_execute_server_program`, since it allows reading or writing any file or
running a program that the server has privileges to access.

Do not confuse `COPY` with the psql instruction `[\copy](app-psql.html#APP-
PSQL-META-COMMANDS-COPY)`. `\copy` invokes `COPY FROM STDIN` or `COPY TO
STDOUT`, and then fetches/stores the data in a file accessible to the psql
client. Thus, file accessibility and access rights depend on the client rather
than the server when `\copy` is used.

It is recommended that the file name used in `COPY` always be specified as an
absolute path. This is enforced by the server in the case of `COPY TO`, but
for `COPY FROM` you do have the option of reading from a file specified by a
relative path. The path will be interpreted relative to the working directory
of the server process (normally the cluster's data directory), not the
client's working directory.

Executing a command with `PROGRAM` might be restricted by the operating
system's access control mechanisms, such as SELinux.

`COPY FROM` will invoke any triggers and check constraints on the destination
table. However, it will not invoke rules.

For identity columns, the `COPY FROM` command will always write the column
values provided in the input data, like the `INSERT` option `OVERRIDING SYSTEM
VALUE`.

`COPY` input and output is affected by `DateStyle`. To ensure portability to
other PostgreSQL installations that might use non-default `DateStyle`
settings, `DateStyle` should be set to `ISO` before using `COPY TO`. It is
also a good idea to avoid dumping data with `IntervalStyle` set to
`sql_standard`, because negative interval values might be misinterpreted by a
server that has a different setting for `IntervalStyle`.

Input data is interpreted according to `ENCODING` option or the current client
encoding, and output data is encoded in `ENCODING` or the current client
encoding, even if the data does not pass through the client but is read from
or written to a file directly by the server.

`COPY` stops operation at the first error. This should not lead to problems in
the event of a `COPY TO`, but the target table will already have received
earlier rows in a `COPY FROM`. These rows will not be visible or accessible,
but they still occupy disk space. This might amount to a considerable amount
of wasted disk space if the failure happened well into a large copy operation.
You might wish to invoke `VACUUM` to recover the wasted space.

`FORCE_NULL` and `FORCE_NOT_NULL` can be used simultaneously on the same
column. This results in converting quoted null strings to null values and
unquoted null strings to empty strings.

## File Formats

### Text Format

When the `text` format is used, the data read or written is a text file with
one line per table row. Columns in a row are separated by the delimiter
character. The column values themselves are strings generated by the output
function, or acceptable to the input function, of each attribute's data type.
The specified null string is used in place of columns that are null. `COPY
FROM` will raise an error if any line of the input file contains more or fewer
columns than are expected.

End of data can be represented by a single line containing just backslash-
period (`\.`). An end-of-data marker is not necessary when reading from a
file, since the end of file serves perfectly well; it is needed only when
copying data to or from client applications using pre-3.0 client protocol.

Backslash characters (`\`) can be used in the `COPY` data to quote data
characters that might otherwise be taken as row or column delimiters. In
particular, the following characters _must_ be preceded by a backslash if they
appear as part of a column value: backslash itself, newline, carriage return,
and the current delimiter character.

The specified null string is sent by `COPY TO` without adding any backslashes;
conversely, `COPY FROM` matches the input against the null string before
removing backslashes. Therefore, a null string such as `\N` cannot be confused
with the actual data value `\N` (which would be represented as `\\N`).

The following special backslash sequences are recognized by `COPY FROM`:

Sequence | Represents  
---|---  
`\b` | Backspace (ASCII 8)  
`\f` | Form feed (ASCII 12)  
`\n` | Newline (ASCII 10)  
`\r` | Carriage return (ASCII 13)  
`\t` | Tab (ASCII 9)  
`\v` | Vertical tab (ASCII 11)  
`\`_`digits`_ | Backslash followed by one to three octal digits specifies the byte with that numeric code  
`\x` _`digits`_ | Backslash `x` followed by one or two hex digits specifies the byte with that numeric code  
  
Presently, `COPY TO` will never emit an octal or hex-digits backslash
sequence, but it does use the other sequences listed above for those control
characters.

Any other backslashed character that is not mentioned in the above table will
be taken to represent itself. However, beware of adding backslashes
unnecessarily, since that might accidentally produce a string matching the
end-of-data marker (`\.`) or the null string (`\N` by default). These strings
will be recognized before any other backslash processing is done.

It is strongly recommended that applications generating `COPY` data convert
data newlines and carriage returns to the `\n` and `\r` sequences
respectively. At present it is possible to represent a data carriage return by
a backslash and carriage return, and to represent a data newline by a
backslash and newline. However, these representations might not be accepted in
future releases. They are also highly vulnerable to corruption if the `COPY`
file is transferred across different machines (for example, from Unix to
Windows or vice versa).

All backslash sequences are interpreted after encoding conversion. The bytes
specified with the octal and hex-digit backslash sequences must form valid
characters in the database encoding.

`COPY TO` will terminate each row with a Unix-style newline (“`\n`”). Servers
running on Microsoft Windows instead output carriage return/newline
(“`\r\n`”), but only for `COPY` to a server file; for consistency across
platforms, `COPY TO STDOUT` always sends “`\n`” regardless of server platform.
`COPY FROM` can handle lines ending with newlines, carriage returns, or
carriage return/newlines. To reduce the risk of error due to un-backslashed
newlines or carriage returns that were meant as data, `COPY FROM` will
complain if the line endings in the input are not all alike.

### CSV Format

This format option is used for importing and exporting the Comma Separated
Value (`CSV`) file format used by many other programs, such as spreadsheets.
Instead of the escaping rules used by PostgreSQL's standard text format, it
produces and recognizes the common `CSV` escaping mechanism.

The values in each record are separated by the `DELIMITER` character. If the
value contains the delimiter character, the `QUOTE` character, the `NULL`
string, a carriage return, or line feed character, then the whole value is
prefixed and suffixed by the `QUOTE` character, and any occurrence within the
value of a `QUOTE` character or the `ESCAPE` character is preceded by the
escape character. You can also use `FORCE_QUOTE` to force quotes when
outputting non-`NULL` values in specific columns.

The `CSV` format has no standard way to distinguish a `NULL` value from an
empty string. PostgreSQL's `COPY` handles this by quoting. A `NULL` is output
as the `NULL` parameter string and is not quoted, while a non-`NULL` value
matching the `NULL` parameter string is quoted. For example, with the default
settings, a `NULL` is written as an unquoted empty string, while an empty
string data value is written with double quotes (`""`). Reading values follows
similar rules. You can use `FORCE_NOT_NULL` to prevent `NULL` input
comparisons for specific columns. You can also use `FORCE_NULL` to convert
quoted null string data values to `NULL`.

Because backslash is not a special character in the `CSV` format, `\.`, the
end-of-data marker, could also appear as a data value. To avoid any
misinterpretation, a `\.` data value appearing as a lone entry on a line is
automatically quoted on output, and on input, if quoted, is not interpreted as
the end-of-data marker. If you are loading a file created by another
application that has a single unquoted column and might have a value of `\.`,
you might need to quote that value in the input file.

### Note

In `CSV` format, all characters are significant. A quoted value surrounded by
white space, or any characters other than `DELIMITER`, will include those
characters. This can cause errors if you import data from a system that pads
`CSV` lines with white space out to some fixed width. If such a situation
arises you might need to preprocess the `CSV` file to remove the trailing
white space, before importing the data into PostgreSQL.

### Note

`CSV` format will both recognize and produce `CSV` files with quoted values
containing embedded carriage returns and line feeds. Thus the files are not
strictly one line per table row like text-format files.

### Note

Many programs produce strange and occasionally perverse `CSV` files, so the
file format is more a convention than a standard. Thus you might encounter
some files that cannot be imported using this mechanism, and `COPY` might
produce files that other programs cannot process.

### Binary Format

The `binary` format option causes all data to be stored/read as binary format
rather than as text. It is somewhat faster than the text and `CSV` formats,
but a binary-format file is less portable across machine architectures and
PostgreSQL versions. Also, the binary format is very data type specific; for
example it will not work to output binary data from a `smallint` column and
read it into an `integer` column, even though that would work fine in text
format.

The `binary` file format consists of a file header, zero or more tuples
containing the row data, and a file trailer. Headers and data are in network
byte order.

### Note

PostgreSQL releases before 7.4 used a different binary file format.

#### File Header

The file header consists of 15 bytes of fixed fields, followed by a variable-
length header extension area. The fixed fields are:

Signature

    

11-byte sequence `PGCOPY\n\377\r\n\0` — note that the zero byte is a required
part of the signature. (The signature is designed to allow easy identification
of files that have been munged by a non-8-bit-clean transfer. This signature
will be changed by end-of-line-translation filters, dropped zero bytes,
dropped high bits, or parity changes.)

Flags field

    

32-bit integer bit mask to denote important aspects of the file format. Bits
are numbered from 0 (LSB) to 31 (MSB). Note that this field is stored in
network byte order (most significant byte first), as are all the integer
fields used in the file format. Bits 16–31 are reserved to denote critical
file format issues; a reader should abort if it finds an unexpected bit set in
this range. Bits 0–15 are reserved to signal backwards-compatible format
issues; a reader should simply ignore any unexpected bits set in this range.
Currently only one flag bit is defined, and the rest must be zero:

Bit 16

    

If 1, OIDs are included in the data; if 0, not. Oid system columns are not
supported in PostgreSQL anymore, but the format still contains the indicator.

Header extension area length

    

32-bit integer, length in bytes of remainder of header, not including self.
Currently, this is zero, and the first tuple follows immediately. Future
changes to the format might allow additional data to be present in the header.
A reader should silently skip over any header extension data it does not know
what to do with.

The header extension area is envisioned to contain a sequence of self-
identifying chunks. The flags field is not intended to tell readers what is in
the extension area. Specific design of header extension contents is left for a
later release.

This design allows for both backwards-compatible header additions (add header
extension chunks, or set low-order flag bits) and non-backwards-compatible
changes (set high-order flag bits to signal such changes, and add supporting
data to the extension area if needed).

#### Tuples

Each tuple begins with a 16-bit integer count of the number of fields in the
tuple. (Presently, all tuples in a table will have the same count, but that
might not always be true.) Then, repeated for each field in the tuple, there
is a 32-bit length word followed by that many bytes of field data. (The length
word does not include itself, and can be zero.) As a special case, -1
indicates a NULL field value. No value bytes follow in the NULL case.

There is no alignment padding or any other extra data between fields.

Presently, all data values in a binary-format file are assumed to be in binary
format (format code one). It is anticipated that a future extension might add
a header field that allows per-column format codes to be specified.

To determine the appropriate binary format for the actual tuple data you
should consult the PostgreSQL source, in particular the `*send` and `*recv`
functions for each column's data type (typically these functions are found in
the `src/backend/utils/adt/` directory of the source distribution).

If OIDs are included in the file, the OID field immediately follows the field-
count word. It is a normal field except that it's not included in the field-
count. Note that oid system columns are not supported in current versions of
PostgreSQL.

#### File Trailer

The file trailer consists of a 16-bit integer word containing -1. This is
easily distinguished from a tuple's field-count word.

A reader should report an error if a field-count word is neither -1 nor the
expected number of columns. This provides an extra check against somehow
getting out of sync with the data.

## Examples

The following example copies a table to the client using the vertical bar
(`|`) as the field delimiter:

    
    
    COPY country TO STDOUT (DELIMITER '|');
    

To copy data from a file into the `country` table:

    
    
    COPY country FROM '/usr1/proj/bray/sql/country_data';
    

To copy into a file just the countries whose names start with 'A':

    
    
    COPY (SELECT * FROM country WHERE country_name LIKE 'A%') TO '/usr1/proj/bray/sql/a_list_countries.copy';
    

To copy into a compressed file, you can pipe the output through an external
compression program:

    
    
    COPY country TO PROGRAM 'gzip > /usr1/proj/bray/sql/country_data.gz';
    

Here is a sample of data suitable for copying into a table from `STDIN`:

    
    
    AF      AFGHANISTAN
    AL      ALBANIA
    DZ      ALGERIA
    ZM      ZAMBIA
    ZW      ZIMBABWE
    

Note that the white space on each line is actually a tab character.

The following is the same data, output in binary format. The data is shown
after filtering through the Unix utility `od -c`. The table has three columns;
the first has type `char(2)`, the second has type `text`, and the third has
type `integer`. All the rows have a null value in the third column.

    
    
    0000000   P   G   C   O   P   Y  \n 377  \r  \n  \0  \0  \0  \0  \0  \0
    0000020  \0  \0  \0  \0 003  \0  \0  \0 002   A   F  \0  \0  \0 013   A
    0000040   F   G   H   A   N   I   S   T   A   N 377 377 377 377  \0 003
    0000060  \0  \0  \0 002   A   L  \0  \0  \0 007   A   L   B   A   N   I
    0000100   A 377 377 377 377  \0 003  \0  \0  \0 002   D   Z  \0  \0  \0
    0000120 007   A   L   G   E   R   I   A 377 377 377 377  \0 003  \0  \0
    0000140  \0 002   Z   M  \0  \0  \0 006   Z   A   M   B   I   A 377 377
    0000160 377 377  \0 003  \0  \0  \0 002   Z   W  \0  \0  \0  \b   Z   I
    0000200   M   B   A   B   W   E 377 377 377 377 377 377
    

## Compatibility

There is no `COPY` statement in the SQL standard.

The following syntax was used before PostgreSQL version 9.0 and is still
supported:

    
    
    COPY _table_name_ [ ( _column_name_ [, ...] ) ]
        FROM { '_filename_ ' | STDIN }
        [ [ WITH ]
              [ BINARY ]
              [ DELIMITER [ AS ] '_delimiter_character_ ' ]
              [ NULL [ AS ] '_null_string_ ' ]
              [ CSV [ HEADER ]
                    [ QUOTE [ AS ] '_quote_character_ ' ]
                    [ ESCAPE [ AS ] '_escape_character_ ' ]
                    [ FORCE NOT NULL _column_name_ [, ...] ] ] ]
    
    COPY { _table_name_ [ ( _column_name_ [, ...] ) ] | ( _query_ ) }
        TO { '_filename_ ' | STDOUT }
        [ [ WITH ]
              [ BINARY ]
              [ DELIMITER [ AS ] '_delimiter_character_ ' ]
              [ NULL [ AS ] '_null_string_ ' ]
              [ CSV [ HEADER ]
                    [ QUOTE [ AS ] '_quote_character_ ' ]
                    [ ESCAPE [ AS ] '_escape_character_ ' ]
                    [ FORCE QUOTE { _column_name_ [, ...] | * } ] ] ]
    

Note that in this syntax, `BINARY` and `CSV` are treated as independent
keywords, not as arguments of a `FORMAT` option.

The following syntax was used before PostgreSQL version 7.3 and is still
supported:

    
    
    COPY [ BINARY ] _table_name_
        FROM { '_filename_ ' | STDIN }
        [ [USING] DELIMITERS '_delimiter_character_ ' ]
        [ WITH NULL AS '_null_string_ ' ]
    
    COPY [ BINARY ] _table_name_
        TO { '_filename_ ' | STDOUT }
        [ [USING] DELIMITERS '_delimiter_character_ ' ]
        [ WITH NULL AS '_null_string_ ' ]
    

## See Also

[Section 28.4.3](progress-reporting.html#COPY-PROGRESS-REPORTING "28.4.3. COPY
Progress Reporting")

* * *

[Prev](sql-commit-prepared.html "COMMIT PREPARED")  | [Up](sql-commands.html "SQL Commands") |  [Next](sql-create-access-method.html "CREATE ACCESS METHOD")  
---|---|---  
COMMIT PREPARED  | [Home](index.html "PostgreSQL 16.9 Documentation") |  CREATE ACCESS METHOD  
  
## Submit correction

If you see anything in the documentation that is not correct, does not match
your experience with the particular feature or requires further clarification,
please use [this form](/account/comments/new/16/sql-copy.html/) to report a
documentation issue.

[Privacy Policy](/about/privacypolicy) | [Code of Conduct](/about/policies/coc/) | [About PostgreSQL](/about/) | [Contact](/about/contact/)  

Copyright (C) 1996-2025 The PostgreSQL Global Development Group

