[ ![PostgreSQL Elephant Logo](/media/img/about/press/elephant.png) ](/)

  * [Home](/ "Home")
  * [About](/about/ "About")
  * [Download](/download/ "Download")
  * [Documentation](/docs/ "Documentation")
  * [Community](/community/ "Community")
  * [Developers](/developer/ "Developers")
  * [Support](/support/ "Support")
  * [Donate](/about/donate/ "Donate")
  * [Your account](/account/ "Your account")

__

May 8, 2025: [ PostgreSQL 17.5, 16.9, 15.13, 14.18, and 13.21 Released! ](/about/news/postgresql-175-169-1513-1418-and-1321-released-3072/) | [ PostgreSQL 18 Beta 1 Released! ](/about/news/postgresql-18-beta-1-released-3070/)

[Documentation](/docs/ "Documentation") -> [PostgreSQL
16](/docs/16/index.html)

Supported Versions: [Current](/docs/current/sql-createaggregate.html
"PostgreSQL 17 - CREATE AGGREGATE") ([17](/docs/17/sql-createaggregate.html
"PostgreSQL 17 - CREATE AGGREGATE")) / [16](/docs/16/sql-createaggregate.html
"PostgreSQL 16 - CREATE AGGREGATE") / [15](/docs/15/sql-createaggregate.html
"PostgreSQL 15 - CREATE AGGREGATE") / [14](/docs/14/sql-createaggregate.html
"PostgreSQL 14 - CREATE AGGREGATE") / [13](/docs/13/sql-createaggregate.html
"PostgreSQL 13 - CREATE AGGREGATE")

Development Versions: [18](/docs/18/sql-createaggregate.html "PostgreSQL 18 -
CREATE AGGREGATE") / [devel](/docs/devel/sql-createaggregate.html "PostgreSQL
devel - CREATE AGGREGATE")

Unsupported versions: [12](/docs/12/sql-createaggregate.html "PostgreSQL 12 -
CREATE AGGREGATE") / [11](/docs/11/sql-createaggregate.html "PostgreSQL 11 -
CREATE AGGREGATE") / [10](/docs/10/sql-createaggregate.html "PostgreSQL 10 -
CREATE AGGREGATE") / [9.6](/docs/9.6/sql-createaggregate.html "PostgreSQL 9.6
- CREATE AGGREGATE") / [9.5](/docs/9.5/sql-createaggregate.html "PostgreSQL
9.5 - CREATE AGGREGATE") / [9.4](/docs/9.4/sql-createaggregate.html
"PostgreSQL 9.4 - CREATE AGGREGATE") / [9.3](/docs/9.3/sql-
createaggregate.html "PostgreSQL 9.3 - CREATE AGGREGATE") /
[9.2](/docs/9.2/sql-createaggregate.html "PostgreSQL 9.2 - CREATE AGGREGATE")
/ [9.1](/docs/9.1/sql-createaggregate.html "PostgreSQL 9.1 - CREATE
AGGREGATE") / [9.0](/docs/9.0/sql-createaggregate.html "PostgreSQL 9.0 -
CREATE AGGREGATE") / [8.4](/docs/8.4/sql-createaggregate.html "PostgreSQL 8.4
- CREATE AGGREGATE") / [8.3](/docs/8.3/sql-createaggregate.html "PostgreSQL
8.3 - CREATE AGGREGATE") / [8.2](/docs/8.2/sql-createaggregate.html
"PostgreSQL 8.2 - CREATE AGGREGATE") / [8.1](/docs/8.1/sql-
createaggregate.html "PostgreSQL 8.1 - CREATE AGGREGATE") /
[8.0](/docs/8.0/sql-createaggregate.html "PostgreSQL 8.0 - CREATE AGGREGATE")
/ [7.4](/docs/7.4/sql-createaggregate.html "PostgreSQL 7.4 - CREATE
AGGREGATE") / [7.3](/docs/7.3/sql-createaggregate.html "PostgreSQL 7.3 -
CREATE AGGREGATE") / [7.2](/docs/7.2/sql-createaggregate.html "PostgreSQL 7.2
- CREATE AGGREGATE") / [7.1](/docs/7.1/sql-createaggregate.html "PostgreSQL
7.1 - CREATE AGGREGATE")

__

CREATE AGGREGATE  
---  
[Prev](sql-create-access-method.html "CREATE ACCESS METHOD")  | [Up](sql-commands.html "SQL Commands") | SQL Commands | [Home](index.html "PostgreSQL 16.9 Documentation") |  [Next](sql-createcast.html "CREATE CAST")  
  
* * *

## CREATE AGGREGATE

CREATE AGGREGATE — define a new aggregate function

## Synopsis

    
    
    CREATE [ OR REPLACE ] AGGREGATE _name_ ( [ _argmode_ ] [ _argname_ ] _arg_data_type_ [ , ... ] ) (
        SFUNC = _sfunc_ ,
        STYPE = _state_data_type_
        [ , SSPACE = _state_data_size_ ]
        [ , FINALFUNC = _ffunc_ ]
        [ , FINALFUNC_EXTRA ]
        [ , FINALFUNC_MODIFY = { READ_ONLY | SHAREABLE | READ_WRITE } ]
        [ , COMBINEFUNC = _combinefunc_ ]
        [ , SERIALFUNC = _serialfunc_ ]
        [ , DESERIALFUNC = _deserialfunc_ ]
        [ , INITCOND = _initial_condition_ ]
        [ , MSFUNC = _msfunc_ ]
        [ , MINVFUNC = _minvfunc_ ]
        [ , MSTYPE = _mstate_data_type_ ]
        [ , MSSPACE = _mstate_data_size_ ]
        [ , MFINALFUNC = _mffunc_ ]
        [ , MFINALFUNC_EXTRA ]
        [ , MFINALFUNC_MODIFY = { READ_ONLY | SHAREABLE | READ_WRITE } ]
        [ , MINITCOND = _minitial_condition_ ]
        [ , SORTOP = _sort_operator_ ]
        [ , PARALLEL = { SAFE | RESTRICTED | UNSAFE } ]
    )
    
    CREATE [ OR REPLACE ] AGGREGATE _name_ ( [ [ _argmode_ ] [ _argname_ ] _arg_data_type_ [ , ... ] ]
                            ORDER BY [ _argmode_ ] [ _argname_ ] _arg_data_type_ [ , ... ] ) (
        SFUNC = _sfunc_ ,
        STYPE = _state_data_type_
        [ , SSPACE = _state_data_size_ ]
        [ , FINALFUNC = _ffunc_ ]
        [ , FINALFUNC_EXTRA ]
        [ , FINALFUNC_MODIFY = { READ_ONLY | SHAREABLE | READ_WRITE } ]
        [ , INITCOND = _initial_condition_ ]
        [ , PARALLEL = { SAFE | RESTRICTED | UNSAFE } ]
        [ , HYPOTHETICAL ]
    )
    
    or the old syntax
    
    CREATE [ OR REPLACE ] AGGREGATE _name_ (
        BASETYPE = _base_type_ ,
        SFUNC = _sfunc_ ,
        STYPE = _state_data_type_
        [ , SSPACE = _state_data_size_ ]
        [ , FINALFUNC = _ffunc_ ]
        [ , FINALFUNC_EXTRA ]
        [ , FINALFUNC_MODIFY = { READ_ONLY | SHAREABLE | READ_WRITE } ]
        [ , COMBINEFUNC = _combinefunc_ ]
        [ , SERIALFUNC = _serialfunc_ ]
        [ , DESERIALFUNC = _deserialfunc_ ]
        [ , INITCOND = _initial_condition_ ]
        [ , MSFUNC = _msfunc_ ]
        [ , MINVFUNC = _minvfunc_ ]
        [ , MSTYPE = _mstate_data_type_ ]
        [ , MSSPACE = _mstate_data_size_ ]
        [ , MFINALFUNC = _mffunc_ ]
        [ , MFINALFUNC_EXTRA ]
        [ , MFINALFUNC_MODIFY = { READ_ONLY | SHAREABLE | READ_WRITE } ]
        [ , MINITCOND = _minitial_condition_ ]
        [ , SORTOP = _sort_operator_ ]
    )
    

## Description

`CREATE AGGREGATE` defines a new aggregate function. `CREATE OR REPLACE
AGGREGATE` will either define a new aggregate function or replace an existing
definition. Some basic and commonly-used aggregate functions are included with
the distribution; they are documented in [Section 9.21](functions-
aggregate.html "9.21. Aggregate Functions"). If one defines new types or needs
an aggregate function not already provided, then `CREATE AGGREGATE` can be
used to provide the desired features.

When replacing an existing definition, the argument types, result type, and
number of direct arguments may not be changed. Also, the new definition must
be of the same kind (ordinary aggregate, ordered-set aggregate, or
hypothetical-set aggregate) as the old one.

If a schema name is given (for example, `CREATE AGGREGATE myschema.myagg ...`)
then the aggregate function is created in the specified schema. Otherwise it
is created in the current schema.

An aggregate function is identified by its name and input data type(s). Two
aggregates in the same schema can have the same name if they operate on
different input types. The name and input data type(s) of an aggregate must
also be distinct from the name and input data type(s) of every ordinary
function in the same schema. This behavior is identical to overloading of
ordinary function names (see [CREATE FUNCTION](sql-createfunction.html "CREATE
FUNCTION")).

A simple aggregate function is made from one or two ordinary functions: a
state transition function _`sfunc`_ , and an optional final calculation
function _`ffunc`_. These are used as follows:

    
    
    _sfunc_( internal-state, next-data-values ) ---> next-internal-state
    _ffunc_( internal-state ) ---> aggregate-value
    

PostgreSQL creates a temporary variable of data type _`stype`_ to hold the
current internal state of the aggregate. At each input row, the aggregate
argument value(s) are calculated and the state transition function is invoked
with the current state value and the new argument value(s) to calculate a new
internal state value. After all the rows have been processed, the final
function is invoked once to calculate the aggregate's return value. If there
is no final function then the ending state value is returned as-is.

An aggregate function can provide an initial condition, that is, an initial
value for the internal state value. This is specified and stored in the
database as a value of type `text`, but it must be a valid external
representation of a constant of the state value data type. If it is not
supplied then the state value starts out null.

If the state transition function is declared “strict”, then it cannot be
called with null inputs. With such a transition function, aggregate execution
behaves as follows. Rows with any null input values are ignored (the function
is not called and the previous state value is retained). If the initial state
value is null, then at the first row with all-nonnull input values, the first
argument value replaces the state value, and the transition function is
invoked at each subsequent row with all-nonnull input values. This is handy
for implementing aggregates like `max`. Note that this behavior is only
available when _`state_data_type`_ is the same as the first _`arg_data_type`_.
When these types are different, you must supply a nonnull initial condition or
use a nonstrict transition function.

If the state transition function is not strict, then it will be called
unconditionally at each input row, and must deal with null inputs and null
state values for itself. This allows the aggregate author to have full control
over the aggregate's handling of null values.

If the final function is declared “strict”, then it will not be called when
the ending state value is null; instead a null result will be returned
automatically. (Of course this is just the normal behavior of strict
functions.) In any case the final function has the option of returning a null
value. For example, the final function for `avg` returns null when it sees
there were zero input rows.

Sometimes it is useful to declare the final function as taking not just the
state value, but extra parameters corresponding to the aggregate's input
values. The main reason for doing this is if the final function is polymorphic
and the state value's data type would be inadequate to pin down the result
type. These extra parameters are always passed as NULL (and so the final
function must not be strict when the `FINALFUNC_EXTRA` option is used), but
nonetheless they are valid parameters. The final function could for example
make use of `get_fn_expr_argtype` to identify the actual argument type in the
current call.

An aggregate can optionally support _moving-aggregate mode_ , as described in
[Section 38.12.1](xaggr.html#XAGGR-MOVING-AGGREGATES "38.12.1. Moving-
Aggregate Mode"). This requires specifying the `MSFUNC`, `MINVFUNC`, and
`MSTYPE` parameters, and optionally the `MSSPACE`, `MFINALFUNC`,
`MFINALFUNC_EXTRA`, `MFINALFUNC_MODIFY`, and `MINITCOND` parameters. Except
for `MINVFUNC`, these parameters work like the corresponding simple-aggregate
parameters without `M`; they define a separate implementation of the aggregate
that includes an inverse transition function.

The syntax with `ORDER BY` in the parameter list creates a special type of
aggregate called an _ordered-set aggregate_ ; or if `HYPOTHETICAL` is
specified, then a _hypothetical-set aggregate_ is created. These aggregates
operate over groups of sorted values in order-dependent ways, so that
specification of an input sort order is an essential part of a call. Also,
they can have _direct_ arguments, which are arguments that are evaluated only
once per aggregation rather than once per input row. Hypothetical-set
aggregates are a subclass of ordered-set aggregates in which some of the
direct arguments are required to match, in number and data types, the
aggregated argument columns. This allows the values of those direct arguments
to be added to the collection of aggregate-input rows as an additional
“hypothetical” row.

An aggregate can optionally support _partial aggregation_ , as described in
[Section 38.12.4](xaggr.html#XAGGR-PARTIAL-AGGREGATES "38.12.4. Partial
Aggregation"). This requires specifying the `COMBINEFUNC` parameter. If the
_`state_data_type`_ is `internal`, it's usually also appropriate to provide
the `SERIALFUNC` and `DESERIALFUNC` parameters so that parallel aggregation is
possible. Note that the aggregate must also be marked `PARALLEL SAFE` to
enable parallel aggregation.

Aggregates that behave like `MIN` or `MAX` can sometimes be optimized by
looking into an index instead of scanning every input row. If this aggregate
can be so optimized, indicate it by specifying a _sort operator_. The basic
requirement is that the aggregate must yield the first element in the sort
ordering induced by the operator; in other words:

    
    
    SELECT agg(col) FROM tab;
    

must be equivalent to:

    
    
    SELECT col FROM tab ORDER BY col USING sortop LIMIT 1;
    

Further assumptions are that the aggregate ignores null inputs, and that it
delivers a null result if and only if there were no non-null inputs.
Ordinarily, a data type's `<` operator is the proper sort operator for `MIN`,
and `>` is the proper sort operator for `MAX`. Note that the optimization will
never actually take effect unless the specified operator is the “less than” or
“greater than” strategy member of a B-tree index operator class.

To be able to create an aggregate function, you must have `USAGE` privilege on
the argument types, the state type(s), and the return type, as well as
`EXECUTE` privilege on the supporting functions.

## Parameters

_`name`_

    

The name (optionally schema-qualified) of the aggregate function to create.

_`argmode`_

    

The mode of an argument: `IN` or `VARIADIC`. (Aggregate functions do not
support `OUT` arguments.) If omitted, the default is `IN`. Only the last
argument can be marked `VARIADIC`.

_`argname`_

    

The name of an argument. This is currently only useful for documentation
purposes. If omitted, the argument has no name.

_`arg_data_type`_

    

An input data type on which this aggregate function operates. To create a
zero-argument aggregate function, write `*` in place of the list of argument
specifications. (An example of such an aggregate is `count(*)`.)

_`base_type`_

    

In the old syntax for `CREATE AGGREGATE`, the input data type is specified by
a `basetype` parameter rather than being written next to the aggregate name.
Note that this syntax allows only one input parameter. To define a zero-
argument aggregate function with this syntax, specify the `basetype` as
`"ANY"` (not `*`). Ordered-set aggregates cannot be defined with the old
syntax.

_`sfunc`_

    

The name of the state transition function to be called for each input row. For
a normal _`N`_ -argument aggregate function, the _`sfunc`_ must take _`N`_ +1
arguments, the first being of type _`state_data_type`_ and the rest matching
the declared input data type(s) of the aggregate. The function must return a
value of type _`state_data_type`_. This function takes the current state value
and the current input data value(s), and returns the next state value.

For ordered-set (including hypothetical-set) aggregates, the state transition
function receives only the current state value and the aggregated arguments,
not the direct arguments. Otherwise it is the same.

_`state_data_type`_

    

The data type for the aggregate's state value.

_`state_data_size`_

    

The approximate average size (in bytes) of the aggregate's state value. If
this parameter is omitted or is zero, a default estimate is used based on the
_`state_data_type`_. The planner uses this value to estimate the memory
required for a grouped aggregate query.

_`ffunc`_

    

The name of the final function called to compute the aggregate's result after
all input rows have been traversed. For a normal aggregate, this function must
take a single argument of type _`state_data_type`_. The return data type of
the aggregate is defined as the return type of this function. If _`ffunc`_ is
not specified, then the ending state value is used as the aggregate's result,
and the return type is _`state_data_type`_.

For ordered-set (including hypothetical-set) aggregates, the final function
receives not only the final state value, but also the values of all the direct
arguments.

If `FINALFUNC_EXTRA` is specified, then in addition to the final state value
and any direct arguments, the final function receives extra NULL values
corresponding to the aggregate's regular (aggregated) arguments. This is
mainly useful to allow correct resolution of the aggregate result type when a
polymorphic aggregate is being defined.

`FINALFUNC_MODIFY` = { `READ_ONLY` | `SHAREABLE` | `READ_WRITE` }
    

This option specifies whether the final function is a pure function that does
not modify its arguments. `READ_ONLY` indicates it does not; the other two
values indicate that it may change the transition state value. See
[Notes](sql-createaggregate.html#SQL-CREATEAGGREGATE-NOTES "Notes") below for
more detail. The default is `READ_ONLY`, except for ordered-set aggregates,
for which the default is `READ_WRITE`.

_`combinefunc`_

    

The _`combinefunc`_ function may optionally be specified to allow the
aggregate function to support partial aggregation. If provided, the
_`combinefunc`_ must combine two _`state_data_type`_ values, each containing
the result of aggregation over some subset of the input values, to produce a
new _`state_data_type`_ that represents the result of aggregating over both
sets of inputs. This function can be thought of as an _`sfunc`_ , where
instead of acting upon an individual input row and adding it to the running
aggregate state, it adds another aggregate state to the running state.

The _`combinefunc`_ must be declared as taking two arguments of the
_`state_data_type`_ and returning a value of the _`state_data_type`_.
Optionally this function may be “strict”. In this case the function will not
be called when either of the input states are null; the other state will be
taken as the correct result.

For aggregate functions whose _`state_data_type`_ is `internal`, the
_`combinefunc`_ must not be strict. In this case the _`combinefunc`_ must
ensure that null states are handled correctly and that the state being
returned is properly stored in the aggregate memory context.

_`serialfunc`_

    

An aggregate function whose _`state_data_type`_ is `internal` can participate
in parallel aggregation only if it has a _`serialfunc`_ function, which must
serialize the aggregate state into a `bytea` value for transmission to another
process. This function must take a single argument of type `internal` and
return type `bytea`. A corresponding _`deserialfunc`_ is also required.

_`deserialfunc`_

    

Deserialize a previously serialized aggregate state back into
_`state_data_type`_. This function must take two arguments of types `bytea`
and `internal`, and produce a result of type `internal`. (Note: the second,
`internal` argument is unused, but is required for type safety reasons.)

_`initial_condition`_

    

The initial setting for the state value. This must be a string constant in the
form accepted for the data type _`state_data_type`_. If not specified, the
state value starts out null.

_`msfunc`_

    

The name of the forward state transition function to be called for each input
row in moving-aggregate mode. This is exactly like the regular transition
function, except that its first argument and result are of type
_`mstate_data_type`_ , which might be different from _`state_data_type`_.

_`minvfunc`_

    

The name of the inverse state transition function to be used in moving-
aggregate mode. This function has the same argument and result types as
_`msfunc`_ , but it is used to remove a value from the current aggregate
state, rather than add a value to it. The inverse transition function must
have the same strictness attribute as the forward state transition function.

_`mstate_data_type`_

    

The data type for the aggregate's state value, when using moving-aggregate
mode.

_`mstate_data_size`_

    

The approximate average size (in bytes) of the aggregate's state value, when
using moving-aggregate mode. This works the same as _`state_data_size`_.

_`mffunc`_

    

The name of the final function called to compute the aggregate's result after
all input rows have been traversed, when using moving-aggregate mode. This
works the same as _`ffunc`_ , except that its first argument's type is
_`mstate_data_type`_ and extra dummy arguments are specified by writing
`MFINALFUNC_EXTRA`. The aggregate result type determined by _`mffunc`_ or
_`mstate_data_type`_ must match that determined by the aggregate's regular
implementation.

`MFINALFUNC_MODIFY` = { `READ_ONLY` | `SHAREABLE` | `READ_WRITE` }
    

This option is like `FINALFUNC_MODIFY`, but it describes the behavior of the
moving-aggregate final function.

_`minitial_condition`_

    

The initial setting for the state value, when using moving-aggregate mode.
This works the same as _`initial_condition`_.

_`sort_operator`_

    

The associated sort operator for a `MIN`\- or `MAX`-like aggregate. This is
just an operator name (possibly schema-qualified). The operator is assumed to
have the same input data types as the aggregate (which must be a single-
argument normal aggregate).

`PARALLEL =` { `SAFE` | `RESTRICTED` | `UNSAFE` }
    

The meanings of `PARALLEL SAFE`, `PARALLEL RESTRICTED`, and `PARALLEL UNSAFE`
are the same as in [`CREATE FUNCTION`](sql-createfunction.html "CREATE
FUNCTION"). An aggregate will not be considered for parallelization if it is
marked `PARALLEL UNSAFE` (which is the default!) or `PARALLEL RESTRICTED`.
Note that the parallel-safety markings of the aggregate's support functions
are not consulted by the planner, only the marking of the aggregate itself.

`HYPOTHETICAL`

    

For ordered-set aggregates only, this flag specifies that the aggregate
arguments are to be processed according to the requirements for hypothetical-
set aggregates: that is, the last few direct arguments must match the data
types of the aggregated (`WITHIN GROUP`) arguments. The `HYPOTHETICAL` flag
has no effect on run-time behavior, only on parse-time resolution of the data
types and collations of the aggregate's arguments.

The parameters of `CREATE AGGREGATE` can be written in any order, not just the
order illustrated above.

## Notes

In parameters that specify support function names, you can write a schema name
if needed, for example `SFUNC = public.sum`. Do not write argument types
there, however — the argument types of the support functions are determined
from other parameters.

Ordinarily, PostgreSQL functions are expected to be true functions that do not
modify their input values. However, an aggregate transition function, _when
used in the context of an aggregate_ , is allowed to cheat and modify its
transition-state argument in place. This can provide substantial performance
benefits compared to making a fresh copy of the transition state each time.

Likewise, while an aggregate final function is normally expected not to modify
its input values, sometimes it is impractical to avoid modifying the
transition-state argument. Such behavior must be declared using the
`FINALFUNC_MODIFY` parameter. The `READ_WRITE` value indicates that the final
function modifies the transition state in unspecified ways. This value
prevents use of the aggregate as a window function, and it also prevents
merging of transition states for aggregate calls that share the same input
values and transition functions. The `SHAREABLE` value indicates that the
transition function cannot be applied after the final function, but multiple
final-function calls can be performed on the ending transition state value.
This value prevents use of the aggregate as a window function, but it allows
merging of transition states. (That is, the optimization of interest here is
not applying the same final function repeatedly, but applying different final
functions to the same ending transition state value. This is allowed as long
as none of the final functions are marked `READ_WRITE`.)

If an aggregate supports moving-aggregate mode, it will improve calculation
efficiency when the aggregate is used as a window function for a window with
moving frame start (that is, a frame start mode other than `UNBOUNDED
PRECEDING`). Conceptually, the forward transition function adds input values
to the aggregate's state when they enter the window frame from the bottom, and
the inverse transition function removes them again when they leave the frame
at the top. So, when values are removed, they are always removed in the same
order they were added. Whenever the inverse transition function is invoked, it
will thus receive the earliest added but not yet removed argument value(s).
The inverse transition function can assume that at least one row will remain
in the current state after it removes the oldest row. (When this would not be
the case, the window function mechanism simply starts a fresh aggregation,
rather than using the inverse transition function.)

The forward transition function for moving-aggregate mode is not allowed to
return NULL as the new state value. If the inverse transition function returns
NULL, this is taken as an indication that the inverse function cannot reverse
the state calculation for this particular input, and so the aggregate
calculation will be redone from scratch for the current frame starting
position. This convention allows moving-aggregate mode to be used in
situations where there are some infrequent cases that are impractical to
reverse out of the running state value.

If no moving-aggregate implementation is supplied, the aggregate can still be
used with moving frames, but PostgreSQL will recompute the whole aggregation
whenever the start of the frame moves. Note that whether or not the aggregate
supports moving-aggregate mode, PostgreSQL can handle a moving frame end
without recalculation; this is done by continuing to add new values to the
aggregate's state. This is why use of an aggregate as a window function
requires that the final function be read-only: it must not damage the
aggregate's state value, so that the aggregation can be continued even after
an aggregate result value has been obtained for one set of frame boundaries.

The syntax for ordered-set aggregates allows `VARIADIC` to be specified for
both the last direct parameter and the last aggregated (`WITHIN GROUP`)
parameter. However, the current implementation restricts use of `VARIADIC` in
two ways. First, ordered-set aggregates can only use `VARIADIC "any"`, not
other variadic array types. Second, if the last direct parameter is `VARIADIC
"any"`, then there can be only one aggregated parameter and it must also be
`VARIADIC "any"`. (In the representation used in the system catalogs, these
two parameters are merged into a single `VARIADIC "any"` item, since `pg_proc`
cannot represent functions with more than one `VARIADIC` parameter.) If the
aggregate is a hypothetical-set aggregate, the direct arguments that match the
`VARIADIC "any"` parameter are the hypothetical ones; any preceding parameters
represent additional direct arguments that are not constrained to match the
aggregated arguments.

Currently, ordered-set aggregates do not need to support moving-aggregate
mode, since they cannot be used as window functions.

Partial (including parallel) aggregation is currently not supported for
ordered-set aggregates. Also, it will never be used for aggregate calls that
include `DISTINCT` or `ORDER BY` clauses, since those semantics cannot be
supported during partial aggregation.

## Examples

See [Section 38.12](xaggr.html "38.12. User-Defined Aggregates").

## Compatibility

`CREATE AGGREGATE` is a PostgreSQL language extension. The SQL standard does
not provide for user-defined aggregate functions.

## See Also

[ALTER AGGREGATE](sql-alteraggregate.html "ALTER AGGREGATE"), [DROP
AGGREGATE](sql-dropaggregate.html "DROP AGGREGATE")

* * *

[Prev](sql-create-access-method.html "CREATE ACCESS METHOD")  | [Up](sql-commands.html "SQL Commands") |  [Next](sql-createcast.html "CREATE CAST")  
---|---|---  
CREATE ACCESS METHOD  | [Home](index.html "PostgreSQL 16.9 Documentation") |  CREATE CAST  
  
## Submit correction

If you see anything in the documentation that is not correct, does not match
your experience with the particular feature or requires further clarification,
please use [this form](/account/comments/new/16/sql-createaggregate.html/) to
report a documentation issue.

[Privacy Policy](/about/privacypolicy) | [Code of Conduct](/about/policies/coc/) | [About PostgreSQL](/about/) | [Contact](/about/contact/)  

Copyright (C) 1996-2025 The PostgreSQL Global Development Group

