[ ![PostgreSQL Elephant Logo](/media/img/about/press/elephant.png) ](/)

  * [Home](/ "Home")
  * [About](/about/ "About")
  * [Download](/download/ "Download")
  * [Documentation](/docs/ "Documentation")
  * [Community](/community/ "Community")
  * [Developers](/developer/ "Developers")
  * [Support](/support/ "Support")
  * [Donate](/about/donate/ "Donate")
  * [Your account](/account/ "Your account")

__

May 8, 2025: [ PostgreSQL 17.5, 16.9, 15.13, 14.18, and 13.21 Released! ](/about/news/postgresql-175-169-1513-1418-and-1321-released-3072/) | [ PostgreSQL 18 Beta 1 Released! ](/about/news/postgresql-18-beta-1-released-3070/)

[Documentation](/docs/ "Documentation") -> [PostgreSQL
16](/docs/16/index.html)

Supported Versions: [Current](/docs/current/sql-createtype.html "PostgreSQL 17
- CREATE TYPE") ([17](/docs/17/sql-createtype.html "PostgreSQL 17 - CREATE
TYPE")) / [16](/docs/16/sql-createtype.html "PostgreSQL 16 - CREATE TYPE") /
[15](/docs/15/sql-createtype.html "PostgreSQL 15 - CREATE TYPE") /
[14](/docs/14/sql-createtype.html "PostgreSQL 14 - CREATE TYPE") /
[13](/docs/13/sql-createtype.html "PostgreSQL 13 - CREATE TYPE")

Development Versions: [18](/docs/18/sql-createtype.html "PostgreSQL 18 -
CREATE TYPE") / [devel](/docs/devel/sql-createtype.html "PostgreSQL devel -
CREATE TYPE")

Unsupported versions: [12](/docs/12/sql-createtype.html "PostgreSQL 12 -
CREATE TYPE") / [11](/docs/11/sql-createtype.html "PostgreSQL 11 - CREATE
TYPE") / [10](/docs/10/sql-createtype.html "PostgreSQL 10 - CREATE TYPE") /
[9.6](/docs/9.6/sql-createtype.html "PostgreSQL 9.6 - CREATE TYPE") /
[9.5](/docs/9.5/sql-createtype.html "PostgreSQL 9.5 - CREATE TYPE") /
[9.4](/docs/9.4/sql-createtype.html "PostgreSQL 9.4 - CREATE TYPE") /
[9.3](/docs/9.3/sql-createtype.html "PostgreSQL 9.3 - CREATE TYPE") /
[9.2](/docs/9.2/sql-createtype.html "PostgreSQL 9.2 - CREATE TYPE") /
[9.1](/docs/9.1/sql-createtype.html "PostgreSQL 9.1 - CREATE TYPE") /
[9.0](/docs/9.0/sql-createtype.html "PostgreSQL 9.0 - CREATE TYPE") /
[8.4](/docs/8.4/sql-createtype.html "PostgreSQL 8.4 - CREATE TYPE") /
[8.3](/docs/8.3/sql-createtype.html "PostgreSQL 8.3 - CREATE TYPE") /
[8.2](/docs/8.2/sql-createtype.html "PostgreSQL 8.2 - CREATE TYPE") /
[8.1](/docs/8.1/sql-createtype.html "PostgreSQL 8.1 - CREATE TYPE") /
[8.0](/docs/8.0/sql-createtype.html "PostgreSQL 8.0 - CREATE TYPE") /
[7.4](/docs/7.4/sql-createtype.html "PostgreSQL 7.4 - CREATE TYPE") /
[7.3](/docs/7.3/sql-createtype.html "PostgreSQL 7.3 - CREATE TYPE") /
[7.2](/docs/7.2/sql-createtype.html "PostgreSQL 7.2 - CREATE TYPE") /
[7.1](/docs/7.1/sql-createtype.html "PostgreSQL 7.1 - CREATE TYPE")

__

CREATE TYPE  
---  
[Prev](sql-createtrigger.html "CREATE TRIGGER")  | [Up](sql-commands.html "SQL Commands") | SQL Commands | [Home](index.html "PostgreSQL 16.9 Documentation") |  [Next](sql-createuser.html "CREATE USER")  
  
* * *

## CREATE TYPE

CREATE TYPE — define a new data type

## Synopsis

    
    
    CREATE TYPE _name_ AS
        ( [ _attribute_name_ _data_type_ [ COLLATE _collation_ ] [, ... ] ] )
    
    CREATE TYPE _name_ AS ENUM
        ( [ '_label_ ' [, ... ] ] )
    
    CREATE TYPE _name_ AS RANGE (
        SUBTYPE = _subtype_
        [ , SUBTYPE_OPCLASS = _subtype_operator_class_ ]
        [ , COLLATION = _collation_ ]
        [ , CANONICAL = _canonical_function_ ]
        [ , SUBTYPE_DIFF = _subtype_diff_function_ ]
        [ , MULTIRANGE_TYPE_NAME = _multirange_type_name_ ]
    )
    
    CREATE TYPE _name_ (
        INPUT = _input_function_ ,
        OUTPUT = _output_function_
        [ , RECEIVE = _receive_function_ ]
        [ , SEND = _send_function_ ]
        [ , TYPMOD_IN = _type_modifier_input_function_ ]
        [ , TYPMOD_OUT = _type_modifier_output_function_ ]
        [ , ANALYZE = _analyze_function_ ]
        [ , SUBSCRIPT = _subscript_function_ ]
        [ , INTERNALLENGTH = { _internallength_ | VARIABLE } ]
        [ , PASSEDBYVALUE ]
        [ , ALIGNMENT = _alignment_ ]
        [ , STORAGE = _storage_ ]
        [ , LIKE = _like_type_ ]
        [ , CATEGORY = _category_ ]
        [ , PREFERRED = _preferred_ ]
        [ , DEFAULT = _default_ ]
        [ , ELEMENT = _element_ ]
        [ , DELIMITER = _delimiter_ ]
        [ , COLLATABLE = _collatable_ ]
    )
    
    CREATE TYPE _name_
    

## Description

`CREATE TYPE` registers a new data type for use in the current database. The
user who defines a type becomes its owner.

If a schema name is given then the type is created in the specified schema.
Otherwise it is created in the current schema. The type name must be distinct
from the name of any existing type or domain in the same schema. (Because
tables have associated data types, the type name must also be distinct from
the name of any existing table in the same schema.)

There are five forms of `CREATE TYPE`, as shown in the syntax synopsis above.
They respectively create a _composite type_ , an _enum type_ , a _range type_
, a _base type_ , or a _shell type_. The first four of these are discussed in
turn below. A shell type is simply a placeholder for a type to be defined
later; it is created by issuing `CREATE TYPE` with no parameters except for
the type name. Shell types are needed as forward references when creating
range types and base types, as discussed in those sections.

### Composite Types

The first form of `CREATE TYPE` creates a composite type. The composite type
is specified by a list of attribute names and data types. An attribute's
collation can be specified too, if its data type is collatable. A composite
type is essentially the same as the row type of a table, but using `CREATE
TYPE` avoids the need to create an actual table when all that is wanted is to
define a type. A stand-alone composite type is useful, for example, as the
argument or return type of a function.

To be able to create a composite type, you must have `USAGE` privilege on all
attribute types.

### Enumerated Types

The second form of `CREATE TYPE` creates an enumerated (enum) type, as
described in [Section 8.7](datatype-enum.html "8.7. Enumerated Types"). Enum
types take a list of quoted labels, each of which must be less than
`NAMEDATALEN` bytes long (64 bytes in a standard PostgreSQL build). (It is
possible to create an enumerated type with zero labels, but such a type cannot
be used to hold values before at least one label is added using [`ALTER
TYPE`](sql-altertype.html "ALTER TYPE").)

### Range Types

The third form of `CREATE TYPE` creates a new range type, as described in
[Section 8.17](rangetypes.html "8.17. Range Types").

The range type's _`subtype`_ can be any type with an associated b-tree
operator class (to determine the ordering of values for the range type).
Normally the subtype's default b-tree operator class is used to determine
ordering; to use a non-default operator class, specify its name with
_`subtype_opclass`_. If the subtype is collatable, and you want to use a non-
default collation in the range's ordering, specify the desired collation with
the _`collation`_ option.

The optional _`canonical`_ function must take one argument of the range type
being defined, and return a value of the same type. This is used to convert
range values to a canonical form, when applicable. See [Section
8.17.8](rangetypes.html#RANGETYPES-DEFINING "8.17.8. Defining New Range
Types") for more information. Creating a _`canonical`_ function is a bit
tricky, since it must be defined before the range type can be declared. To do
this, you must first create a shell type, which is a placeholder type that has
no properties except a name and an owner. This is done by issuing the command
`CREATE TYPE _`name`_`, with no additional parameters. Then the function can
be declared using the shell type as argument and result, and finally the range
type can be declared using the same name. This automatically replaces the
shell type entry with a valid range type.

The optional _`subtype_diff`_ function must take two values of the _`subtype`_
type as argument, and return a `double precision` value representing the
difference between the two given values. While this is optional, providing it
allows much greater efficiency of GiST indexes on columns of the range type.
See [Section 8.17.8](rangetypes.html#RANGETYPES-DEFINING "8.17.8. Defining New
Range Types") for more information.

The optional _`multirange_type_name`_ parameter specifies the name of the
corresponding multirange type. If not specified, this name is chosen
automatically as follows. If the range type name contains the substring
`range`, then the multirange type name is formed by replacement of the `range`
substring with `multirange` in the range type name. Otherwise, the multirange
type name is formed by appending a `_multirange` suffix to the range type
name.

### Base Types

The fourth form of `CREATE TYPE` creates a new base type (scalar type). To
create a new base type, you must be a superuser. (This restriction is made
because an erroneous type definition could confuse or even crash the server.)

The parameters can appear in any order, not only that illustrated above, and
most are optional. You must register two or more functions (using `CREATE
FUNCTION`) before defining the type. The support functions _`input_function`_
and _`output_function`_ are required, while the functions _`receive_function`_
, _`send_function`_ , _`type_modifier_input_function`_ ,
_`type_modifier_output_function`_ , _`analyze_function`_ , and
_`subscript_function`_ are optional. Generally these functions have to be
coded in C or another low-level language.

The _`input_function`_ converts the type's external textual representation to
the internal representation used by the operators and functions defined for
the type. _`output_function`_ performs the reverse transformation. The input
function can be declared as taking one argument of type `cstring`, or as
taking three arguments of types `cstring`, `oid`, `integer`. The first
argument is the input text as a C string, the second argument is the type's
own OID (except for array types, which instead receive their element type's
OID), and the third is the `typmod` of the destination column, if known (-1
will be passed if not). The input function must return a value of the data
type itself. Usually, an input function should be declared STRICT; if it is
not, it will be called with a NULL first parameter when reading a NULL input
value. The function must still return NULL in this case, unless it raises an
error. (This case is mainly meant to support domain input functions, which
might need to reject NULL inputs.) The output function must be declared as
taking one argument of the new data type. The output function must return type
`cstring`. Output functions are not invoked for NULL values.

The optional _`receive_function`_ converts the type's external binary
representation to the internal representation. If this function is not
supplied, the type cannot participate in binary input. The binary
representation should be chosen to be cheap to convert to internal form, while
being reasonably portable. (For example, the standard integer data types use
network byte order as the external binary representation, while the internal
representation is in the machine's native byte order.) The receive function
should perform adequate checking to ensure that the value is valid. The
receive function can be declared as taking one argument of type `internal`, or
as taking three arguments of types `internal`, `oid`, `integer`. The first
argument is a pointer to a `StringInfo` buffer holding the received byte
string; the optional arguments are the same as for the text input function.
The receive function must return a value of the data type itself. Usually, a
receive function should be declared STRICT; if it is not, it will be called
with a NULL first parameter when reading a NULL input value. The function must
still return NULL in this case, unless it raises an error. (This case is
mainly meant to support domain receive functions, which might need to reject
NULL inputs.) Similarly, the optional _`send_function`_ converts from the
internal representation to the external binary representation. If this
function is not supplied, the type cannot participate in binary output. The
send function must be declared as taking one argument of the new data type.
The send function must return type `bytea`. Send functions are not invoked for
NULL values.

You should at this point be wondering how the input and output functions can
be declared to have results or arguments of the new type, when they have to be
created before the new type can be created. The answer is that the type should
first be defined as a _shell type_ , which is a placeholder type that has no
properties except a name and an owner. This is done by issuing the command
`CREATE TYPE _`name`_`, with no additional parameters. Then the C I/O
functions can be defined referencing the shell type. Finally, `CREATE TYPE`
with a full definition replaces the shell entry with a complete, valid type
definition, after which the new type can be used normally.

The optional _`type_modifier_input_function`_ and
_`type_modifier_output_function`_ are needed if the type supports modifiers,
that is optional constraints attached to a type declaration, such as `char(5)`
or `numeric(30,2)`. PostgreSQL allows user-defined types to take one or more
simple constants or identifiers as modifiers. However, this information must
be capable of being packed into a single non-negative integer value for
storage in the system catalogs. The _`type_modifier_input_function`_ is passed
the declared modifier(s) in the form of a `cstring` array. It must check the
values for validity (throwing an error if they are wrong), and if they are
correct, return a single non-negative `integer` value that will be stored as
the column “typmod”. Type modifiers will be rejected if the type does not have
a _`type_modifier_input_function`_. The _`type_modifier_output_function`_
converts the internal integer typmod value back to the correct form for user
display. It must return a `cstring` value that is the exact string to append
to the type name; for example `numeric`'s function might return `(30,2)`. It
is allowed to omit the _`type_modifier_output_function`_ , in which case the
default display format is just the stored typmod integer value enclosed in
parentheses.

The optional _`analyze_function`_ performs type-specific statistics collection
for columns of the data type. By default, `ANALYZE` will attempt to gather
statistics using the type's “equals” and “less-than” operators, if there is a
default b-tree operator class for the type. For non-scalar types this behavior
is likely to be unsuitable, so it can be overridden by specifying a custom
analysis function. The analysis function must be declared to take a single
argument of type `internal`, and return a `boolean` result. The detailed API
for analysis functions appears in `src/include/commands/vacuum.h`.

The optional _`subscript_function`_ allows the data type to be subscripted in
SQL commands. Specifying this function does not cause the type to be
considered a “true” array type; for example, it will not be a candidate for
the result type of `ARRAY[]` constructs. But if subscripting a value of the
type is a natural notation for extracting data from it, then a
_`subscript_function`_ can be written to define what that means. The subscript
function must be declared to take a single argument of type `internal`, and
return an `internal` result, which is a pointer to a struct of methods
(functions) that implement subscripting. The detailed API for subscript
functions appears in `src/include/nodes/subscripting.h`. It may also be useful
to read the array implementation in `src/backend/utils/adt/arraysubs.c`, or
the simpler code in `contrib/hstore/hstore_subs.c`. Additional information
appears in [Array Types](sql-createtype.html#SQL-CREATETYPE-ARRAY "Array
Types") below.

While the details of the new type's internal representation are only known to
the I/O functions and other functions you create to work with the type, there
are several properties of the internal representation that must be declared to
PostgreSQL. Foremost of these is _`internallength`_. Base data types can be
fixed-length, in which case _`internallength`_ is a positive integer, or
variable-length, indicated by setting _`internallength`_ to `VARIABLE`.
(Internally, this is represented by setting `typlen` to -1.) The internal
representation of all variable-length types must start with a 4-byte integer
giving the total length of this value of the type. (Note that the length field
is often encoded, as described in [Section 73.2](storage-toast.html
"73.2. TOAST"); it's unwise to access it directly.)

The optional flag `PASSEDBYVALUE` indicates that values of this data type are
passed by value, rather than by reference. Types passed by value must be
fixed-length, and their internal representation cannot be larger than the size
of the `Datum` type (4 bytes on some machines, 8 bytes on others).

The _`alignment`_ parameter specifies the storage alignment required for the
data type. The allowed values equate to alignment on 1, 2, 4, or 8 byte
boundaries. Note that variable-length types must have an alignment of at least
4, since they necessarily contain an `int4` as their first component.

The _`storage`_ parameter allows selection of storage strategies for variable-
length data types. (Only `plain` is allowed for fixed-length types.) `plain`
specifies that data of the type will always be stored in-line and not
compressed. `extended` specifies that the system will first try to compress a
long data value, and will move the value out of the main table row if it's
still too long. `external` allows the value to be moved out of the main table,
but the system will not try to compress it. `main` allows compression, but
discourages moving the value out of the main table. (Data items with this
storage strategy might still be moved out of the main table if there is no
other way to make a row fit, but they will be kept in the main table
preferentially over `extended` and `external` items.)

All _`storage`_ values other than `plain` imply that the functions of the data
type can handle values that have been _toasted_ , as described in [Section
73.2](storage-toast.html "73.2. TOAST") and [Section
38.13.1](xtypes.html#XTYPES-TOAST "38.13.1. TOAST Considerations"). The
specific other value given merely determines the default TOAST storage
strategy for columns of a toastable data type; users can pick other strategies
for individual columns using `ALTER TABLE SET STORAGE`.

The _`like_type`_ parameter provides an alternative method for specifying the
basic representation properties of a data type: copy them from some existing
type. The values of _`internallength`_ , _`passedbyvalue`_ , _`alignment`_ ,
and _`storage`_ are copied from the named type. (It is possible, though
usually undesirable, to override some of these values by specifying them along
with the `LIKE` clause.) Specifying representation this way is especially
useful when the low-level implementation of the new type “piggybacks” on an
existing type in some fashion.

The _`category`_ and _`preferred`_ parameters can be used to help control
which implicit cast will be applied in ambiguous situations. Each data type
belongs to a category named by a single ASCII character, and each type is
either “preferred” or not within its category. The parser will prefer casting
to preferred types (but only from other types within the same category) when
this rule is helpful in resolving overloaded functions or operators. For more
details see [Chapter 10](typeconv.html "Chapter 10. Type Conversion"). For
types that have no implicit casts to or from any other types, it is sufficient
to leave these settings at the defaults. However, for a group of related types
that have implicit casts, it is often helpful to mark them all as belonging to
a category and select one or two of the “most general” types as being
preferred within the category. The _`category`_ parameter is especially useful
when adding a user-defined type to an existing built-in category, such as the
numeric or string types. However, it is also possible to create new entirely-
user-defined type categories. Select any ASCII character other than an upper-
case letter to name such a category.

A default value can be specified, in case a user wants columns of the data
type to default to something other than the null value. Specify the default
with the `DEFAULT` key word. (Such a default can be overridden by an explicit
`DEFAULT` clause attached to a particular column.)

To indicate that a type is a fixed-length array type, specify the type of the
array elements using the `ELEMENT` key word. For example, to define an array
of 4-byte integers (`int4`), specify `ELEMENT = int4`. For more details, see
[Array Types](sql-createtype.html#SQL-CREATETYPE-ARRAY "Array Types") below.

To indicate the delimiter to be used between values in the external
representation of arrays of this type, _`delimiter`_ can be set to a specific
character. The default delimiter is the comma (`,`). Note that the delimiter
is associated with the array element type, not the array type itself.

If the optional Boolean parameter _`collatable`_ is true, column definitions
and expressions of the type may carry collation information through use of the
`COLLATE` clause. It is up to the implementations of the functions operating
on the type to actually make use of the collation information; this does not
happen automatically merely by marking the type collatable.

### Array Types

Whenever a user-defined type is created, PostgreSQL automatically creates an
associated array type, whose name consists of the element type's name
prepended with an underscore, and truncated if necessary to keep it less than
`NAMEDATALEN` bytes long. (If the name so generated collides with an existing
type name, the process is repeated until a non-colliding name is found.) This
implicitly-created array type is variable length and uses the built-in input
and output functions `array_in` and `array_out`. Furthermore, this type is
what the system uses for constructs such as `ARRAY[]` over the user-defined
type. The array type tracks any changes in its element type's owner or schema,
and is dropped if the element type is.

You might reasonably ask why there is an `ELEMENT` option, if the system makes
the correct array type automatically. The main case where it's useful to use
`ELEMENT` is when you are making a fixed-length type that happens to be
internally an array of a number of identical things, and you want to allow
these things to be accessed directly by subscripting, in addition to whatever
operations you plan to provide for the type as a whole. For example, type
`point` is represented as just two floating-point numbers, which can be
accessed using `point[0]` and `point[1]`. Note that this facility only works
for fixed-length types whose internal form is exactly a sequence of identical
fixed-length fields. For historical reasons (i.e., this is clearly wrong but
it's far too late to change it), subscripting of fixed-length array types
starts from zero, rather than from one as for variable-length arrays.

Specifying the `SUBSCRIPT` option allows a data type to be subscripted, even
though the system does not otherwise regard it as an array type. The behavior
just described for fixed-length arrays is actually implemented by the
`SUBSCRIPT` handler function `raw_array_subscript_handler`, which is used
automatically if you specify `ELEMENT` for a fixed-length type without also
writing `SUBSCRIPT`.

When specifying a custom `SUBSCRIPT` function, it is not necessary to specify
`ELEMENT` unless the `SUBSCRIPT` handler function needs to consult `typelem`
to find out what to return. Be aware that specifying `ELEMENT` causes the
system to assume that the new type contains, or is somehow physically
dependent on, the element type; thus for example changing properties of the
element type won't be allowed if there are any columns of the dependent type.

## Parameters

_`name`_

    

The name (optionally schema-qualified) of a type to be created.

_`attribute_name`_

    

The name of an attribute (column) for the composite type.

_`data_type`_

    

The name of an existing data type to become a column of the composite type.

_`collation`_

    

The name of an existing collation to be associated with a column of a
composite type, or with a range type.

_`label`_

    

A string literal representing the textual label associated with one value of
an enum type.

_`subtype`_

    

The name of the element type that the range type will represent ranges of.

_`subtype_operator_class`_

    

The name of a b-tree operator class for the subtype.

_`canonical_function`_

    

The name of the canonicalization function for the range type.

_`subtype_diff_function`_

    

The name of a difference function for the subtype.

_`multirange_type_name`_

    

The name of the corresponding multirange type.

_`input_function`_

    

The name of a function that converts data from the type's external textual
form to its internal form.

_`output_function`_

    

The name of a function that converts data from the type's internal form to its
external textual form.

_`receive_function`_

    

The name of a function that converts data from the type's external binary form
to its internal form.

_`send_function`_

    

The name of a function that converts data from the type's internal form to its
external binary form.

_`type_modifier_input_function`_

    

The name of a function that converts an array of modifier(s) for the type into
internal form.

_`type_modifier_output_function`_

    

The name of a function that converts the internal form of the type's
modifier(s) to external textual form.

_`analyze_function`_

    

The name of a function that performs statistical analysis for the data type.

_`subscript_function`_

    

The name of a function that defines what subscripting a value of the data type
does.

_`internallength`_

    

A numeric constant that specifies the length in bytes of the new type's
internal representation. The default assumption is that it is variable-length.

_`alignment`_

    

The storage alignment requirement of the data type. If specified, it must be
`char`, `int2`, `int4`, or `double`; the default is `int4`.

_`storage`_

    

The storage strategy for the data type. If specified, must be `plain`,
`external`, `extended`, or `main`; the default is `plain`.

_`like_type`_

    

The name of an existing data type that the new type will have the same
representation as. The values of _`internallength`_ , _`passedbyvalue`_ ,
_`alignment`_ , and _`storage`_ are copied from that type, unless overridden
by explicit specification elsewhere in this `CREATE TYPE` command.

_`category`_

    

The category code (a single ASCII character) for this type. The default is
`'U'` for “user-defined type”. Other standard category codes can be found in
[Table 53.65](catalog-pg-type.html#CATALOG-TYPCATEGORY-TABLE
"Table 53.65. typcategory Codes"). You may also choose other ASCII characters
in order to create custom categories.

_`preferred`_

    

True if this type is a preferred type within its type category, else false.
The default is false. Be very careful about creating a new preferred type
within an existing type category, as this could cause surprising changes in
behavior.

_`default`_

    

The default value for the data type. If this is omitted, the default is null.

_`element`_

    

The type being created is an array; this specifies the type of the array
elements.

_`delimiter`_

    

The delimiter character to be used between values in arrays made of this type.

_`collatable`_

    

True if this type's operations can use collation information. The default is
false.

## Notes

Because there are no restrictions on use of a data type once it's been
created, creating a base type or range type is tantamount to granting public
execute permission on the functions mentioned in the type definition. This is
usually not an issue for the sorts of functions that are useful in a type
definition. But you might want to think twice before designing a type in a way
that would require “secret” information to be used while converting it to or
from external form.

Before PostgreSQL version 8.3, the name of a generated array type was always
exactly the element type's name with one underscore character (`_`) prepended.
(Type names were therefore restricted in length to one fewer character than
other names.) While this is still usually the case, the array type name may
vary from this in case of maximum-length names or collisions with user type
names that begin with underscore. Writing code that depends on this convention
is therefore deprecated. Instead, use `pg_type`.`typarray` to locate the array
type associated with a given type.

It may be advisable to avoid using type and table names that begin with
underscore. While the server will change generated array type names to avoid
collisions with user-given names, there is still risk of confusion,
particularly with old client software that may assume that type names
beginning with underscores always represent arrays.

Before PostgreSQL version 8.2, the shell-type creation syntax `CREATE TYPE
_`name`_` did not exist. The way to create a new base type was to create its
input function first. In this approach, PostgreSQL will first see the name of
the new data type as the return type of the input function. The shell type is
implicitly created in this situation, and then it can be referenced in the
definitions of the remaining I/O functions. This approach still works, but is
deprecated and might be disallowed in some future release. Also, to avoid
accidentally cluttering the catalogs with shell types as a result of simple
typos in function definitions, a shell type will only be made this way when
the input function is written in C.

In PostgreSQL version 16 and later, it is desirable for base types' input
functions to return “soft” errors using the new `errsave()`/`ereturn()`
mechanism, rather than throwing `ereport()` exceptions as in previous
versions. See `src/backend/utils/fmgr/README` for more information.

## Examples

This example creates a composite type and uses it in a function definition:

    
    
    CREATE TYPE compfoo AS (f1 int, f2 text);
    
    CREATE FUNCTION getfoo() RETURNS SETOF compfoo AS $$
        SELECT fooid, fooname FROM foo
    $$ LANGUAGE SQL;
    

This example creates an enumerated type and uses it in a table definition:

    
    
    CREATE TYPE bug_status AS ENUM ('new', 'open', 'closed');
    
    CREATE TABLE bug (
        id serial,
        description text,
        status bug_status
    );
    

This example creates a range type:

    
    
    CREATE TYPE float8_range AS RANGE (subtype = float8, subtype_diff = float8mi);
    

This example creates the base data type `box` and then uses the type in a
table definition:

    
    
    CREATE TYPE box;
    
    CREATE FUNCTION my_box_in_function(cstring) RETURNS box AS ... ;
    CREATE FUNCTION my_box_out_function(box) RETURNS cstring AS ... ;
    
    CREATE TYPE box (
        INTERNALLENGTH = 16,
        INPUT = my_box_in_function,
        OUTPUT = my_box_out_function
    );
    
    CREATE TABLE myboxes (
        id integer,
        description box
    );
    

If the internal structure of `box` were an array of four `float4` elements, we
might instead use:

    
    
    CREATE TYPE box (
        INTERNALLENGTH = 16,
        INPUT = my_box_in_function,
        OUTPUT = my_box_out_function,
        ELEMENT = float4
    );
    

which would allow a box value's component numbers to be accessed by
subscripting. Otherwise the type behaves the same as before.

This example creates a large object type and uses it in a table definition:

    
    
    CREATE TYPE bigobj (
        INPUT = lo_filein, OUTPUT = lo_fileout,
        INTERNALLENGTH = VARIABLE
    );
    CREATE TABLE big_objs (
        id integer,
        obj bigobj
    );
    

More examples, including suitable input and output functions, are in [Section
38.13](xtypes.html "38.13. User-Defined Types").

## Compatibility

The first form of the `CREATE TYPE` command, which creates a composite type,
conforms to the SQL standard. The other forms are PostgreSQL extensions. The
`CREATE TYPE` statement in the SQL standard also defines other forms that are
not implemented in PostgreSQL.

The ability to create a composite type with zero attributes is a PostgreSQL-
specific deviation from the standard (analogous to the same case in `CREATE
TABLE`).

## See Also

[ALTER TYPE](sql-altertype.html "ALTER TYPE"), [CREATE DOMAIN](sql-
createdomain.html "CREATE DOMAIN"), [CREATE FUNCTION](sql-createfunction.html
"CREATE FUNCTION"), [DROP TYPE](sql-droptype.html "DROP TYPE")

* * *

[Prev](sql-createtrigger.html "CREATE TRIGGER")  | [Up](sql-commands.html "SQL Commands") |  [Next](sql-createuser.html "CREATE USER")  
---|---|---  
CREATE TRIGGER  | [Home](index.html "PostgreSQL 16.9 Documentation") |  CREATE USER  
  
## Submit correction

If you see anything in the documentation that is not correct, does not match
your experience with the particular feature or requires further clarification,
please use [this form](/account/comments/new/16/sql-createtype.html/) to
report a documentation issue.

[Privacy Policy](/about/privacypolicy) | [Code of Conduct](/about/policies/coc/) | [About PostgreSQL](/about/) | [Contact](/about/contact/)  

Copyright (C) 1996-2025 The PostgreSQL Global Development Group

